All educational content is obsolete.
Every textbook, every lesson plan, every
test, all of it is obsolete because
Genai is going to be able to deliver a
personalized lesson just for you.
[Music]
This is going to be so much fun. I have
learned so much from you about what
you're building and I'm extremely
excited to share it with everybody else
and I view my role today as like the
excited skeptic uh which I feel like is
the role of a lot of the parents
considering Alpha School for their kids.
And so I want to go into deep detail
about every aspect of what you and
Mackenzie have built. But since most
people actually don't yet know what
Alpha School is, I think you have to
start the conversation by just
explaining what it is and and why the
two of you are building it together.
Alpha School, it's a high-end private
school. Um, it's expanding across the
country, but at its core is redefining
what school can be for kids.
>> Yeah.
>> Um, and what makes a great school? Um,
I'm a product guy, you know, and so
you're like looking at it from product
aspect. How can you re rebuild school
and make it awesome? We look at five
things of like how do you build a great
school? And the first is kids must love
school.
>> That's just a crazy thought, right? that
most people do not believe you, you
know, love it. And our standard is we
want to build it so the kids want to go
to school instead of going on vacation.
I've been principal now for three years.
McKenzie started it 10 years ago. I I
came on three years ago. Two months ago,
our high school kids sent us a note and
they said, "Hey,
>> can we go can we not take summer break
because we're loving what we're doing so
much we want to continue through it."
And so it's sort of a a peak.
>> Sounds impossible, but I'll grant it for
now.
>> But right, I was one of those kids who
definitely did not like school. I
dropped out of college and then you know
in high school I got in trouble cuz I
skipped school all the time and so this
this is a different world for me you
know and then the second part of it is
just on learning um kids need to learn
10 times faster and so we built an
engine learning engine you know all the
talk about AI and learning science where
kids can learn 10 times faster and so in
our school kids go in spend two hours a
day with the AI tutor um uh with screen
time and all the things around that uh
we obviously consider very good screen
time
>> and they learn 10 times faster. So our
academic performance is the top of any
school in the country and we do it in
dramatically less time. And then the key
to that is once you can crush your
academics in two hours a day, the
natural follow-on question is well what
do you do the rest of the day? Because I
can tell you as principal the one thing
parents don't want you to do is send
them home after two hours. So uh what do
you do for the four hours? And so that's
where we talk about life skills. And
this is, you know, in reimagining what
are all the things that as a parent we
want beyond pure academics, right?
Leadership, teamwork, entrepreneurship,
financial literacy, right? Relationship
building, socialization, hard work,
grit, you know, um storytelling, public
speaking, all of those kind of things.
We do all of that in the the rest of the
day. And those are like big
project-based, you know, workshops that
are super fun for the kids and team-
based and not screen time, right? Sort
of the opposite.
>> The first thing you ever said to me was
something like, uh, educating kids is
the single most important thing we do as
a society. And it hasn't changed in like
200 years. And and let me just dig into
that a little bit more as to why it
hasn't change like how it began and why
it hasn't changed because it's been the
same way for so long that radical
approaches like this one we're open to
radical approaches in everything in the
world like the pace of technology
everyone's excited about the pace of
technology change but education is one
place that I think parents myself
included are sort of scared because it
feels like the ultimate risk to put your
kid in something that's different
>> and uh so I want to talk about this like
200 year legacy like why why was it like
why is it like it is and why doesn't
change.
>> Every parent wants to educate the kid
the way they were. I I was like I didn't
start the school. Mackenzie started the
school 10 years ago and I had I went to
Catholic school. My kids are in Catholic
school. She starts Alpha. You know, it
took her 2 years of saying, you know,
come to my school.
>> And I'm like, no offense, Mackenzie. I'm
not sending my kid to your weird janky
school. Like, it's weird, right? It's
different. And so, you know, I I I
didn't want to do it. And that's the
normal parent reaction to all of this
cuz it's all we know. So back to the 200
years is you know there were you know if
you go sort of the Socrates, Plato,
Aristotle, Alexander the Great, you know
the elite had tutors but fundamentally
you know 200 years ago when we decided
everybody needed education you know
globally we created the industrialized
model and the way to do it is put a
teacher in front of a classroom and
whatever the class size is 20 30 you
know that is actually globally right it
doesn't matter where you are in the
world you know you can be in the poor
school district you know in India and
there's a teacher in front of a
classroom, you know, the building's not
that nice. Or you could be down the
street here at a $75,000 private school
and it's a teacher in front of a
classroom in a very nice, you know, a
very nice building. Uh, and you know,
that is how teaching's been done. What
happened is sort of 40 years ago uh the
schools of education you know Stanford
was one of the leading ones uh but lots
of others took a took a lead and said
how do kids learn and develop and
there's actually a thing called learning
science
>> the science of how kids you know
children develop and you know they
started writing papers 40 years ago that
were basically the teacher in front of
the classrooms like the worst way to
teach kids and there's all these ways
where kids can learn two five 10 times
faster but it doesn't work in the
teacher influence classroom model and so
it's not scalable so you can't do
anything about it like one of the first
papers there's there's Bloom's two sigma
is a seminal paper and they talk in the
paper well if everybody had an
individualized tutor right it'd be great
but obviously not feasible there's a lot
of other things too mastery based
learning space repetition all these
other concepts of cognitive load theory
about all those
>> we can we can go into those but
fundamentally it just hasn't been
possible that's sort of I guess where
you know my my how I came into the alpha
story which was I was an early AI old
school AI not the new neural net right
and in the 80s I actually wrote a paper
in high school on AI um and one of my
paragraphs was like neural nets but
they're decades away right back then it
was all expert systems and ontologies
right and so you know and then I went to
Stanford and I was actually in a class
with Ed Fenbomb professor Fenbomb who
was the father of expert systems and you
know he's talking about how these things
are worth millions of dollars if you
ever get to work. And so, you know, my
classmates and I, a couple of us, we
dropped out and started Trilogy. And we
spent our claim to fame in the '9s was
we were the first AI product to sell a
billion dollars.
>> And so that was our, you know, but old
school, old school sell. But then three
years ago when Gen AI came out, I was
like, "Oh, neural nets are here. They're
here. It's decades here." And my kids
were at Alpha because 10 years ago they
I did talk about it. I eventually did
send him to alpha uh which is a great
story how they got there but it wasn't
scalable just like all other ed
educational things. I was like Mackenzie
you have a great school here and it's
great for my kids and your kids and all
kids go to alpha but this can't scale.
Three years ago with Genai I was like ah
this is finally the technology that is
going to allow education to scale and we
can take all this awesomeness where kids
can learn two five 10 times better
faster and get it out to a billion kids.
That's when I became principal because I
was like, "Okay, Mackenzie, we could
totally make this, you know, a super
scalable thing, but I'm a product guy. I
got to be in it. I got to see what
happens when fifth graders get in a
fight and when parents yell at you and
all of those things." So,
>> so if we think about the school as
there's lots of components, but I want
to spend a chunk of time on just the two
hours of learning and how whether that
should be 1 hour or three hours or, you
know, aspects of that and then the the
afternoon session, the sort of life
skills, the motivation, everything else.
Maybe starting with the the the chapters
that the two-hour learning has gone
through. My understanding is that
originally it's always been
computer-based, try to make it
personalized using external tools like
EXL and others that that people may know
about. Um but then layering in
critically like a a feedback mechanism
which I know for you is like uh you know
incredibly important in anything that
you build that tight feedback and
iteration matters a lot. So maybe talk
us through the the various iterations of
this software itself and and like
literally what it is and what it does,
what it feels like to use.
>> Khan Academy is sort of the best one.
Everybody knows that one.
>> This concept and actually homeschoolers
know this a lot is most homeschoolers
only spend a couple hours a day, you
know, with apps um trying to teach. Now,
so the evolution very much was using
various apps, you know, and figuring
out, okay, here's, you know, 10 years
ago, Dreambox was one of the the leading
apps back then, you know, and there's
using apps in order to have kids learn.
The evolution has been how do you make
the apps better? How do you get better
educational outcomes and less time? So,
and there's little revisionist history
since I' I've only been here the 3
years,
>> but fundamentally the design goal that,
you know, our team uses is when we put
in new software or new anything, does it
increase their academic knowledge
>> or reduce the time
>> that it takes to learn,
>> right? That's basically you're like how
do I get knowledge into a kid's head and
not crammed where they're going to
forget it where it truly is you know
back to learning science it's going to
change the schema of their brain right
it's going to change it and it's going
to be there forever right and how do I
do that and create thinking right and
create knowledge acquisition and how do
I do that in the most efficient way
possible
>> and there's lots of the learning science
that says here's how you do that
>> um and so what we've been doing is
saying great sort of since I took over
or you know became principal and started
building out this product was all right
what can you do what are the principles
of learning science that are the
foundations of this that now can have a
kid learn and learn well and so but when
you come in so how does it work so let's
take a new kid yeah
>> you're going to come in the first thing
that
>> you know um apps are really good at is
figuring out what you know and what you
don't know.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. And so it's going to be able to
ask you some questions. So just think of
any kind of assessment test. There's
lots of out there. A maps test would be
a good example is figuring out, you
know, what do you know and what do you
don't know? And then once we figure that
out, we give you lessons to build up
your knowledge from wherever you are.
And so the first thing you have to do
and this, you know, uh that's very
different is age grade and knowledge
grade are very different things, right?
that just because you're in sixth grade
age- wise doesn't mean you actually
should be in sixth grade content. And
this is one of the big things that's
different for a teacher in front of a
classroom model.
>> Right? Where a teacher has to deliver
sixth grade material. I'm a sixth grade
teacher. I'm doing sixth grade lessons.
Right? The magic, right? And this is
what the, you know, the uh AI tutor can
do is say, "Look, I don't know. I don't
know what happened. It's co whatever
happened you were on holiday, you know,
you missed those lessons. You don't know
this fourth grade material.
>> And so, I'm just going to give you this
fourth grade lesson, even though age-
wise you're in sixth grade. And the
reason you've been having struggling in
sixth grade material is because you
didn't know this fourth grade concept,
right? That if you're doing fractions
and you haven't mastered division,
right, you're going to sit there and
say, "God, this fraction problem is
really hard." But the real issue is,
well, just go back and learn your
division and then the fraction is going
to be easier. And you know most of
knowledge is hierarchical where it bas
it's based on foundation. You know
algebra is basically advanced fraction
manipulation. Fractions is
multiplication and division and right
you can just keep going down um the tree
where you have to actually learn bottom
up and have mastery. One of the big
concepts of learning science is you need
to master material not just know parts
and have big gaping.
>> What does mastery mean? Mastery means
think of like a sports analogy.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. Have you mastered the basics,
right? How good are you? Right. We
always talk about, you know, in standard
school there's a whole set of things
that like 70%, you know, you're passing,
you know, you don't know 30% of the
material,
>> right?
>> And then they move you on to more
advanced things. And you know, it's
always it's sort of like in basketball,
if like if you're the point guard and
you lose the ball 30% of the time going
down the court,
>> the the coach is not going to be like,
"Hey, let's work on the alleyoop." You
know, they're going to be like, "Okay,
let's get back to the basics and master
the basics so you can get down the
court."
>> Yeah. So, basically have 100 close to
>> close to 100. So, our standard is over
90, right? And so one of the things that
we do you know versus and like versus
other apps and you know what we had to
surround the apps was if you use
existing apps and use them at the
mastery standard they they have
>> you'll struggle to get the results we
get at alpha um because uh the mastery
standard that's embedded in all the apps
and used is just too low. Can we spend a
minute on on the learning science and
the cognitive behavioral uh stuff and
and every cognitive load theory and all
this kind of stuff that underpins the
two you know less time you know better
better content scores. Uh maybe just
yeah just dump on us like the important
aspects of those two fields that you've
>> Sure. So
>> assimilated.
>> Let's go through just in order. If you
take uh individual personalized lesson
plans, the first thing is if you need a
fourth grade lesson, it's really
important that you're given a fourth
grade lesson even if you're in sixth
grade.
>> This is like one 10 oneonone tutor. It's
like
>> it's like the one the Bloom's 101 tutor.
The second part is you do need mastery.
And so back to fourth grade, go learn
it, right? And when kids are struggling
as they get older, the real issue isn't
that they're struggling in the older
material, it's the prior material. And
so just put them into the the prior
material. Then as you get into cognitive
load theory which is here's the way to
think about that is and simplification
and is you have working memory slots
right you have every person has a
certain number of chunks that you can
work on or registers on a CPU if you're
a technical person and that's what when
you're doing that that's when you're
computing i.e thinking, right? What is 7
* 8? And I'm calculating what that is.
Um, then the second part of it is
how many times how many reps does it
take to take what's in working memory
and put it into long-term memory so you
remember it forever. And you know,
there's a certain number and actually
people are different. You know, GT kids
need fewer reps than other kids.
Fundamentally, it's how many reps you
need to put it in. And there's a whole
concept of spaced repetition which is if
you space them out over time, right, you
retain it for longer. This is the I
cram,
>> right? Versus do you remember it? Like
we have a workshop with the kids where,
you know, if you actually take kids and
say, "Okay, you're going to do
vocabulary words 10 minutes a day, you
know, every day. On Friday, you know,
here's your test score."
We have another group that then
volunteers and they're like, "No, no,
no. I'm going to cram the night before."
>> They cram the night before and then they
take the test and they basically get
about the same test and say they're
like, "See, cramming works."
>> We then retest them a week later.
>> And the cram kids don't remember
anything. And the people who've done it
10 minutes a day all remember it. And
the kids learn, oh, okay, I should
actually not cram if I really want to
learn this. Um, which goes back to our
whole thing of, you know, there back to
retention and learning faster. You can
teach kids to be these self-driven
learners where they learn these concepts
and actually are excited to learn two,
five, 10 times faster, right? They kids
want to learn as quickly as they can.
Um, uh, assuming you give them their
time back.
>> Just to put a fine point on it right
now, maybe just like share your favorite
of the you've been the school's been
around for a while. You've been there
three years. some of your favorite
outcome statistics. Like so far we've
been talking about a really radical cool
new way of educating kids, but you you
measure everything in in our
conversations. I've come to appreciate
that like you are a measurement fanatic.
>> Um and and so you care very deeply about
the measurable outcomes here. What are
some favorite examples of what this
method has allowed for in the kids?
>> You know, our academic results are
>> um are just crazy based on standardized
tests. So the there's two parts. The
first is our kids literally spend two
hours a day and that's it.
>> And so, you know, there instead of
sitting in class for six and homework,
right, that the amount, you know, of
time they need to spend is so much less
than what we spent or what parents
expect. You know, the the the data you
need is the average kid at alpha, if
you're a year behind in a subject,
>> right? You know, for whatever reason, to
a parent like, "Oh my god, that's
terrible." Well, your kid's only 20 to
30 hours behind that. You can teach an
entire grade level of material for one
subject in about 20 to 30 hours.
>> Crazy,
>> right? And you're just like, wait,
there's 180 school days and each class
is an hour and it's 180 hours plus
homework and you're telling me it's 20
to 30 hours. And you're like, yeah, 5 to
10 times faster, right? Over and over.
our AP kids, like they'll do AP, you
know, world history where our kids all
got fives because the test came back uh
a couple weeks ago. They all get fives
and uh they spend 75 hours max to do AP.
So this whole oh these big AP loads, you
know, in high school where it's hundreds
of hours, you're like, oh wow, it just
doesn't take that long. And so this
whole concept of we need to have kids
spend six hours a day plus homework for
12 years, it's just it's not even close
to true,
>> you know, in this new world. And and
then the second part is okay, they're
only doing it two hours. They must not
your your scores aren't high enough. and
our academic the reason you know we use
a lot of standardized tests because well
first off when I talk to the parents I'm
like you wouldn't even our parents who
don't believe you know who don't like
standardized testing they actually love
it with alpha because they wouldn't
believe our results right
>> I'm like you know if I sat here and just
said hey
>> it's better
>> trust me trust me that two hours is
totally working right they're like
what's the test right and it's only you
know and we we do a midyear test so you
you come in in August or September mber
and take your MAPS test that we use. We
use third party and then in January you
get your midyear update. And you know
for parents who come in you know at
first they're like okay this sounds
really exciting and then their kid you
know comes in is doing the two-hour day
their kids loving school you know
somewhere around December at cuz they're
home at Christmas and the family members
are like
>> this seems like a is your kid really
learning and all this stuff. They start
get a little freaked out and then the
January maps test come backs and shows
they're learning twice as much in two
hours a day. So our standard is in two
hours a day you'll learn twice as much
as sitting in class for six. And you
know for that that's just you know if
you look on growth rate right our growth
relative to any other school in the
country is off the charts. Like there's
there's a a substack actually that just
came out that literally just takes our
maps results and feeds it to AI and says
compare this to the best schools in the
country. and they're like there is no
school in the country who can deliver
these kind of results because both you
can take in kids who are behind right
and if they're learning twice as fast
they're going to catch up. So you can
take a kid at 50th percentile and get
them into top 10%. Or you can take a kid
at 99th percentile which is usually
capped out and all of a sudden put them
years ahead, right? And so it works on
either side because you're just focusing
on the growth which is how do you teach
the kids more in less time
>> and you know you you also can just sit
there anybody who you know if you talk
to the experts in learning science
they're like well theoretically this has
all been predicted for 40 years but no
one's been able to implement it. Oh,
okay. I guess we're implementing it and
it's working.
>> I like the idea that you told me one
time that kind of like the microscoped
unlocked biology that AI unlocks
learning science. It seems like that's
just true.
>> Yeah. So, I this was this is I I agree
back to my favorite analogy is you know
the the sciences, you know, biology,
chemistry, and you know, uh physics.
Let's take those. They had their days of
of wandering in the wilderness, lost in
the wilderness where, you know, doctors
were still bloodletting and, you know,
chemists were blowing themselves up
because they were mix, you know, and uh
and there was an invention of an
instrument, right? The microscope for
biology and the telescope for physics
and the analytical balance for chemistry
that allowed more precise measurement,
>> right? And that precise measurement is
what allowed those sciences to really
take off. And so learning science has
sort of been that way. It's in this, you
know, wilderness period for 40 years
where we still have teachers, you know,
in front of the classroom, you know, in
just a bad model. Teachers are great.
Teacher in front of the classroom is the
problem, right? The model is the issue,
but teachers are awesome. I want to be
really clear because that's a we should
talk about how important the adults in a
building are. But back to the the
learning science AI allows you to do
precise instruction to the student. So
and then second measure the results and
if you take the AI out right your effect
is dominated by the classroom right and
you don't know is the student motivated
are they even trying what's the prior
knowledge of the student did the teacher
actually instruct it correctly right and
so the the environmental variables
dominate in the last 40 years with
learning science with ours with an AI
giving very precise instruction and
being able to closed loop measure it
right. That closed loop is the magic to
your point which is we have a closed
loop that no one else has that our team
comes up with an idea and says okay
theoretically let's take you know Dean
Schwarz you know chapter K you know and
put it in we generate lessons the
students use them right how well does
this improve teaching they take a
standardized test we measure how long
how much time they spend they take a
standardized test we have the results
did it work right and keep that loop
going um we're basically the only place
that has that closed loop which is why
we're able to get these crazy awesome
outcomes and other people aren't. You
also told me the best way to learn is by
analogy. And there's there's another
analogy which is I think quite cool is
is to think about this program like an
iPhone that like every year for a long
time they were releasing a new one and
it's constantly getting better.
>> And I want to understand some of the
dimensions of that with the 2-hour piece
specifically before we get to the
afternoon and motivators and everything
else
>> which is I know you started like I said
before with with tools like you're
starting with a you know standard set of
curriculum that maps to the map tests
and everything else.
talk about like the iter what has
improved the most since you first
started applying this this idea of like
wait not only is this core idea of the
learning loop better but the but the
each component part of it can probably
get improved like the iPhone does year
to year.
>> Yeah. Here's the magical part, and this
gets into um the time back of what we're
going to be launching to to bring this
outside of alpha is
generating personalized lesson plans for
kids for them.
>> Yeah.
>> Is the magical unlock because it affects
everything which is back to motivation
and your point of analogies and
learning. Let me go far extreme. I I
have a first grade boy who's like, "I
hate books. I don't want to read."
>> And you're like, "Here's a book." Right.
>> Good luck.
>> Good luck. Okay, just a second. Who
What's your favorite movie? Right. Oh,
the Avengers. Who are the buddies on
your soccer team? Really? Okay. I am
going to generate, right, a personalized
uh choose your own adventure story where
you and your buddies are saving the
world,
>> right? And it's going to be geared
exactly to your Lexile level, right?
Your reading ability, which is back to
learning science. You want to stay
within 10% of, you know, where they are.
So it's not too easy, not too hard. Zone
of proximal development, right? And so
you're sitting there and now I have a
lesson that you are going to engage in
and it you're going to be reading it and
you're saving and you're choosing your
adventure of where you're going and
you're engaging and kids will spend who
quote hate books will spend an hour,
right, choosing it. And as they learn
more, you can move up the Lexile level
and such. And you can build a
personalized lesson just for them that's
dynamic. You want to learn fractions,
right? You can sit there and say, "Oh,
you don't want to do math, but oh, you
want to be a fashionista and a fashion
designer. Okay, well, how are you going
to do that?" Right? We're going to make
this all in rulers and, you know, dress
patterns and all those kind of things.
And all of a sudden, you're going to
want to learn fractions. or I love you.
If you love baseball, I'm going to teach
you statistics in the tournament of
baseball. AI and this is the generative
part of AI that really matters is all
educational content is obsolete.
Every textbook, every lesson plan, every
test, all of it is obsolete because Gen
AI is going to be able to deliver
generate a personalized lesson just for
you,
>> right? And it's going to take into
account, you know, what is your
knowledge graph? What do you know and
what do you not know? Right. It's going
to take in the curriculum. Okay. What am
I trying to teach you? It's also going
to take into account your interest
graph. What do you care about?
>> Yeah.
>> Right. And so all of a sudden, you can
sit and say, what is my knowledge graph
of what I know and what my interest
graph is? Right. Uh here's an example of
an AI a generated one where uh people
were doing AP World and they were coming
back from a Taylor Swift concert and
they're like I'm having trouble with the
start of World War I and you're like
okay well generate a lesson plan
>> in terms of Taylor Swift right and all
of a sudden you know when and I I can't
remember exactly but when she was on the
you know uh getting the award and they
came up and took it and then there was
all the controversy and there was a
mediator and literally It just created a
table of all the people, you know, who
were involved, the Taylor Swift people
and then the World War I with, you know,
Arch Duke Fronford and all that. And
literally the kids like, "Okay, I'm
going to remember this forever." Or, uh,
for AP world history, our kids, our high
school kids generated this where they go
into Sumo, which is an AI music
generator, and they literally, just like
Hamilton, you know, here's back to
interest level and and generating
content. you know, every kid coming into
high school these days, everything they
because we don't teach history that much
anymore in sort of standard school. And
so if you transfer into alpha, your
knowledge of history is basically
whatever is in a Hamilton song, right?
That's sort of the that's the if it's
there, they know it, and if they don't,
they don't. Well, taking that theme even
further, you know, for every unit in uh
AP history, the students generated a
song, right, to teach themselves the
concepts, right? And they were all just
singing the songs, going down, having a
great time, right? And they made the the
material relevant to their interests,
right? Which massively aids engagement
and retention. And so when you think
about the biggest change is imagine
getting personalized lessons, right?
Geared for your interests. And those
lessons though are all based in the
concepts of learning science. Like think
of giving a kid an unending stream
of questions, right, and knowledge at 80
to 85% accuracy, which is sort of the
zone of proximal development, which is
you don't want to make it too hard,
>> right? where I'm half the time I'm
failing because you're gonna get
disengagement, right? Talk to game
developers. They've
>> learned about this. Yeah.
>> Yeah. You're just game developers. You
use the same theory as game developers
is how do I keep them engaged? And if
it's getting too hard, let's make it a
little easier. What's the, you know, I
can, oh, it's a scaffolding issue where
there it's a prior knowledge issue. I
can do that. Um, I can use analogies
that they know. Oh, it's Taylor Swift or
baseball or whatever their their
concepts are. And I just give you an
unending stream of questions that you're
engaged with that you really like.
>> Right? the amount of that you are going
to learn is 10 times more than you would
passively sitting in class, you know,
disengaged. Yeah.
>> Um, and so that's really what the magic
is of being able to autogenerate content
for each student based on their, you
know, interest graph. Now, there is
cognitive load stuff also of well, you
know, when you feel confused and
overloaded, that's usually when you're
overloading your working memory, right?
That's also when careless mistakes come
in. You can sit there and say, make sure
because every student's different. You
tailor the question based on how many
slots they have, right? How many chunks
do they have? So it's not too hard for
them where you're not overloading it.
Um, you know, a classic one on this one
um is fluency, which is fluency if you
know you can solve harder math problems
if you know your multiplication tables
and division tables. For students who
are struggling, right, in advanced math,
part of the problem is just go memorize
your multiplication tables, right, which
they all can do and then all of a sudden
their higher level math scores get
better. We have one student who was, you
know, and this is sort of a unique an
extreme example and I hesitate to say
it, but you know, we had a student who
was 740 on the math SAT
and in looking right uh they were making
careless errors, right? They were
basically in the some of the problems
they were overloading work in memory.
And for whatever reason, this student
had never fully didn't have fluency of
multiplication and division tables.
>> So, we literally sent her back to third
grade math,
>> right? We're the only school in the
world who will take a 740 math SAT
student,
>> go back to third grade,
>> send back and she got a 790.
>> Crazy,
>> right? A 790. And it's that kind of
thing where when you talk about the
science of learning and just I I I say
it this way, the parent and the student
in this case were not excited that their
740 math student is being given third
grade problems. They're like that can't
be the issue.
>> But it is,
>> right? It is because you're overloading
the working memory and she's just making
careless mistakes. And once she has it,
right, ju just a quick selfish aside,
when will this be available for me?
Again, we're I keep referencing we're
going to come back to motivation. I'm
motivated to learn lots of stuff.
Investors in general like motivated to
learn lots of stuff. Um I'm often facing
novel situations where I don't know the
physics or the technicals or the this or
the that and I wish I could just input
like, yeah, here's everything about me.
Here's all my favorite stuff.
>> Ask me anything you want to know. I'll
tell you anything. Now teach me
whatever. Um teach me avionics. Teach me
whatever. I'll take tests. Like I'll do
whatever it takes. Like how long do you
think we are from a normal adult that
doesn't need motivating just being able
to input the thing they want to learn
about and having a system like time back
teach it to us much faster?
>> We're focused on K through 12. There
needs to be somebody else who does that
for the adults. But the next 5 or 10
years everybody can have this. this is
going to be a standard thing for
everybody that back to a visionary you
know u I was talking to some ministers
of education of other countries and you
know I was like look you know sometime
in the next 5 years I don't know exactly
when but there's going to be a tablet
that's less than $1,000
that is going to teach every kid on this
planet everything they need to know in
two hours a day right that's coming
right it's going to come and you know we
our AI burn is like 10,000 bucks a kid
now, but it's going to be down. It's
going to be for everybody. It's going to
be on a, you know, tablet that
everybody's going to have. Um, and that
that is coming. If you're a parent, you
should wake up and be super excited. You
know, AI is going to affect people
various ways. There's going to be
winners and losers, right? I'm I'm in
Austin
>> and we have the robo taxis and the wayos
and all this stuff. And I'm like, I
would not want to be an Uber driver.
This is just not good, right? It is not
good for them. For kids,
>> it is an unequivocal good. This is
Mackenzie's favorite line and I
completely agree with it which is this
is the best time in history to be a
5-year-old
>> because we are going to transform their
first 12 years because they are not
going to sit in class. People do not
like school, right? It is school
experience for most people is not good
and they don't learn and we're going to
completely be able to transform their,
you know, dozen years and make it
awesome as opposed to the chore that it
is today.
>> How fast does the benefit diminish with
age? like the best time to be a
5-year-old, what about to be a
10-year-old or a 15y old? Like, will
that cohort still enjoy these benefits?
>> Back to catching up and how far, you
know, we'll take anybody into an alpha
school academically if they're willing
to put in the time. And when you talk
about the time, you're like, "Wow,
you're really far behind. So, you can't
do the two-hour learning. You got to do
the three-hour learning." Okay? You need
to take one hour of homework, right? Or
an extra hour in the class daytime in
order to catch up. No, cuz it's, you
know, you know, on our on our dashboard,
you know, we literally have one for when
people come in where parents can look
and say, you know, no matter how far how
many weeks it will take their kid to
catch up, right, if they do one hour of
homework, right? And so you can take a
kid years behind, right? And you're
like, well, you're 20 to 30 hours,
right? Times you're two years behind.
Great. You're 40 to 60 hours behind. The
number of hours just isn't that much.
and you can just catch them catch up
very quickly. Um so anybody can take
advantage of it and I believe that you
know it it's getting the curriculum in
and getting you know and getting that
closed loop and measuring it and
>> yeah well let's talk about motivation
now. So we know that motivation is some
huge percent of the problem. I think
there's been interesting studies. The
the anonymous parent that that wrote
about whose kids in alpha school talked
about this idea that they tried to adopt
themselves some of the programs that
were underneath um early versions of
alpha and they really didn't have a lot
of success like their kids didn't really
want to do it. They kind of complained
about doing it on the weekend. Um there
wasn't the feedback mechanism critically
to show the kids you know kind of gified
where they are. But motivation solving
for motivation both in giving feedback
on on their progress but also in what
happens in the afternoon has been a
critical part I think of alpha success.
So just talk me through the entire like
journey journey of learning about this
and what you do.
>> Yeah. So motivation is 90% of the
solution.
>> Okay. The edte is 10%.
>> And so this this is actually in just
hitting the edte and the software and
all that stuff. Even though I come from
the software ground the problem edtech
has failed, right? We keep putting
edtech into schools and test scores keep
going down. So there's no right it's
failed. Um and the issue is edtech is
necessary but not sufficient. It's 10%
of the solution that the two things
every you know educators will say you
need two things to teach a kid. First
and most important a motivated student
and then second you need to put them in
lessons of the correct difficulty.
Right? That's and not too easy not too
hard. So approximal development. So EdTE
does the second one really well. AI
tutors, right? We can ask you what you
know and what you don't know. Take an
assessment test and then we're going to
give you those questions. But are you
going to engage? Do you have any
interest in engaging? Right? Or if I
don't engage with the app, right? Then
I'm not going to learn anything.
Motivation is 90%. And alpha is 100%
built around solving the motivation
problem. There's two two stories here on
this was back to when I moved my kid
over years ago. Brian um who was the
co-founder with Mackenzie of Alpha. I
asked him I was like what's something
that I don't believe about education
that I need to know. She's he's like
kids must love school. Right. The first
commitment of alpha is kids will love
school.
>> And I'm like oh you know school's sort
of like spinach sometimes.
>> Yeah,
>> right. And sort of sucks and all stuff.
He's like you are wrong. Kids must love
school. That couldn't be more true. If
we're going to fix education, we have to
wake up every day and realize why don't
we make these dozen years for kids. We
spend plenty of money, right? We spend
plenty of money. We spent a trillion
dollars for K through 12 in this country
to make kids love school right now. Put
them in class for six hours, give them
homework, make it a very terrible
environment. We're not doing that. But
we need to change it so they love
school. And that's tied into how you
have to solve the motivation. If you
want them to learn, you have to do that.
Um and so uh and actually and just back
to the edtech one last thing on the
edtech is you know edtech has five or
10% of kids who do well with it right
and there's a whole paper out called the
5% solution where
it the successes around edtech are
basically there's a set of kids who love
academics for academic sake right and
learning more right they're
self-motivated high conscientiousness
often high IQ Q kids, right, who do
really well, right, in the current
existing system and you give them apps
and they do it. But that's not 90% of
the market. And 90% of the market is
okay, how do we motivate how do we
motivate kids? And so motivation is the
core of the design. So let's start with,
you know, the first the first part of
this, which is so my first week as
principal 3 years ago, you know, I'm now
accountable to the kids must love
school,
>> right? and love school so much they
don't want to go on vacation which right
and so I'm talking to some fifth graders
I'm like guys they're new to the school
I'm like you know do you love school
would you rather go to school and
vacation they're like no and I'm like
okay well what would make you love
school and they're like less school and
I'm like okay well how much less and
they're like no school and I'm like okay
well that seems a little light as a
principal to like have no school and So
basically we negotiated I was like look
how about this if two hours a day if you
engaged in the apps like and you'd have
to engage you can't screw around you
can't be doing stuff but would if you
really engaged with the apps for two
hours and then you had four hours of the
most awesome stuff you love to do and
workshops and you know team based stuff
that you really loved you know would you
do that and they're basically like okay
and that's when you know and I'm back
with my team on my you know my software
team. I'm like, "All right, guys. We
have 2 hours, right? We have 2 hours and
we have to teach these kids as much as
we can and look, all this learning
science says it can be done and let's go
figure this out and let's create a
system, right? Where these kids are
going to crush it academically in 2
hours because that is the right you have
to have first you have to solve it in
two hours and give them their time
back." And so the code name of our
product and actually it's actually going
to be the product when you say when does
everybody get this right next year our
goal is to get this out. We our our job
my job is to get this to a billion kids
and so I need a software platform to do
it. You can't do it with all the
>> um with just the physical schools um or
just alpha and so but time back was the
name of the product. Give kids their
time back
>> and that is by far the number one
motivator for kids. Actually, in that
article you're talking about from uh
that parent, motivation's complicated.
There's lots of ways to motivate kids,
right? Our guides, our adults in the
building, our guides and coaches, they
spend all their day figuring out how do
we motivate kids, right? And you know,
sometimes it's, you know, the
kindergarter wants a sticker or
sometimes it's, oh, some of the students
are competitive and they want to be top
of a a stack rank, we say like that. But
by far the number one if you take the
biggest kids your biggest one your
highest right effect size is give kids
their time back
>> and that drives the huge performance
which is if you took all my other
motivations that we use you know at
alpha and you said they have to sit in
class for six hours and do homework I I
don't know any of those other
motivations would work versus I you have
to solve the first one which is you need
an engine that teaches kids 10 times
faster so you can give them their time
back. And then once you do that, these
other motivations work as well. But time
back is by far the most important
motivation. And then with it, it totally
works cuz kids kids get it. You're like,
"Well,
>> do I want to spend two hours g eng ga,
right, to then do four hours of great
stuff,
>> right?" Almost every kid's like, "Okay,
that seems a lot better."
>> So what is the great stuff? Like what
happens in the second twothirds of the
day? Because the parents don't want the
kids back. you got to keep the kids. So,
what what's going on?
>> The afternoons are all the life skill
workshops. There's tons of stories
around it, but these are project-based
workshops um where kids are doing stuff
they love, but also teaching them life
skills. And so, think of a life skill
that you want. Oh, I want my kid to be I
want entrepreneurial life skills. So,
our fifth graders last year or two years
ago ran an Airbnb,
>> right? And they loved it. And they had
to learn, right, P&Ls and gross margin
and all these things. because they had
to learn business and they were loving
it, right? And how do we set prices and
oh right and they were decorating it and
you know this year those same group were
like well we want to launch a food
truck. Austin has a big food truck
scene, right? We want to launch a food
truck. And I, you know, I was talking to
one of them and I was like, "Uh, why'd
you pick?" They picked breakfast food.
Dippers, they call themselves, right?
Why'd you pick breakfast food? They're
like, "Do you understand the gross
margin on breakfast foods?" They're
like, "It's just enormous." And you're
like, "Okay, this is awesome, right?"
And they're, you know, and they have the
food truck and they're at, you know,
they on weekends like they're going to
car dealerships and have it open and,
you know, they're making $1,000 and and
just think it's great. when you think of
life skills that we're trying to teach.
We have a we have a whole life skill
curriculum, right? Because if you know
common core curriculum is you know the
the standard academics but parents have
a standard of okay well how do we teach
teamwork and leadership right today
teamwork and leadership is taught via
sports in America right that most life
skills in America are taught um in
afterchool sports and if you actually
survey parents they're like where did
you learn your life skills grit right
leadership teamwork all those kind of
ones they're all like oh in sports and
that's why sports is such a big part of
it. Now, you can teach those in school.
You don't need to to do it. Actually,
school is a great place to teach
leadership and teamwork and all these
other life skills. Our big one, right?
It's leadership and teamwork. Second,
storytelling and public speaking, you
know, and and talk about this one, which
is uh if you actually go to the average
10 10-year-old and you're like, "Hey, do
you want to do public speaking?"
>> The kids like, "Yeah, it doesn't sound
that fun, right? That's not exciting.
How do you make it fun and exciting so
they love it?" You're like, "Well, uh,
you know, we have, uh, postgame press
conference. You're the athlete, right?
Everybody wants to be able to do their
postgame press conference." So, these
kids all practice their public speaking
and then they go up to Austin FC, the
stadium, and get to go, you know, once
they pass, they get to see the game and
they get to go then sit and see the
postgame press conference, you know,
with their favorite star. And then we
have a deal where then after the stars
leave a couple of the press stay and
then the kids go up and get interrogated
by him and every kids like okay I want
to I want to be able to do that where
you're taking this is a life skill I
want to teach right public speaking how
do I frame it in a way where kids are
going to love this and and really engage
with it. How do you have the teachers,
the guides, the coaches do this more
systematically? Like this seems to be
the software really tracks with me like
it's it's very clear to me intuitively
how it might scale because you can
program it into the system. It it seems
less obvious how you could scale
something like those examples. I have I
have a friend, a dear friend, um, who
I'm sure will enjoy this conversation,
whose son is super interested as a as a
young entrepreneur, as a young teenager,
and he's building this little online
business. And I'm sure if you told uh
his son, look, you're going to get four
extra hours a day to work on your
business, he would he would bust his
butt on the two hours to do anything to
run his online, you know, sweatshirt
shop. But the most amazing version of
this I can imagine is that like some
amazing person that knows a lot about
entrepreneurship and online selling and
all this kind of stuff is helping that
kid. But that that's that matching
exercise. It just seems less scalable
and less obvious how a system can get
built that allows that afternoon to be
as buttoned up as the morning.
>> It depends on the age of the kid which
is so K through eight you can build an
afternoon and we have built an afternoon
set of workshop and curriculum that's
structured and standard and can be
rolled out.
>> Yeah. right? Which is uh because it's
it's not custom where they're doing
individualized projects. Once you get uh
to high school, we have what we call
alphax project which is your you know
4-year
super passion project where you have all
afternoon for four years to work with on
you love and that is very custom and we
actually you know every kid's different.
We have a we have you know one student
who's putting she's trying to get a
Broadway musical. I'll talk, you know,
where it's the first all teen produced
developed Broadway musical. And so she
spent years building it out. She sourced
all the people from Tik Tok, right? All
the singers. She can fill a thousand
people into a a venue now, right? And uh
to your point, there's no guide or coach
at Alpha who can help her, right? And so
our high school curriculum very much is
how are you a self-driven learner who
can use resources including where AI
really gives you superpowers to be able
to do these projects on your own. And
that's the difference. K through eight,
we talk about we have a a life skills
curriculum, right, that the kids do that
are designed and managed by the guides
and coaches. And then high school is
where they transition to where they take
ownership themselves. And then they
basically get feedback on how they're
doing from the market. Yeah. Right. From
the public. You're are you selling stuff
online?
>> Right. and they learn how to reach out
and you know they DM people on Twitter
and are like you know one one thing we
found is super successful adults
overinvest in ambitious teens
>> and so all these kids are out you know
getting help um uh from adults in order
to to do it because you can't hire a
teacher staff who can do all that.
>> What about the stuff that goes in that
zooming into the K through8 bucket
specifically? Like I could imagine uh if
the carrot in the four hours was like an
amazing field day or something that's
different than like you need to learn
you know to memorize some poem and give
a public speech or something like the
the the amount of actual motivation can
range a lot and it's student dependent.
What have you learned in the three years
about the sorts of things that kids
actually love doing that is the reward
for doing their two hours in the
morning?
>> So here's okay I'm going to say the most
controversial thing I think of the of
the talk right now. There's three things
that if I could wave a magic wand um and
get every parent in America to believe
cuz they don't believe it today.
>> Like if if out of this podcast this was
the outcome, this would do more to to
change education than anything. The
first thing is
>> your kid must love school, right? We've
talked about it and they should want to
go to school instead of go on vacation,
right? That's if every parent believe
that, right? That would be critical,
right, to changing it. The second is
your kid can crush their academics in
two hours a day. Right? You cannot think
and subject your kid to six hours a day
plus homework. Right? You need we need
to stop that two hours a day. And then
the third, this is the controversial
one. Um about this and that we've
learned um and uh is the key to your
child's happiness is high standards. And
that is the controversial part, right?
which is the re kids want to do awesome
stuff. Kids think they're awesome. Kids
are awesome. Parents are very worried
naturally. They care about safety,
right? They care they worry about their
kids trying and failing, right? And so
the workshops that drive excitement,
that drive kids loving it, right? What
really engages it? It's not make the
workshop easy.
>> The kids want to go do hard things
>> and the kids want to struggle and fail.
They don't want to struggle and fail,
but they want to struggle and fail on
their road to success. Now, they need to
be supported by a caring adult. You need
high support and high standards, right?
Is you when we talk about our guides, we
should we should go into that. But
fundamentally, kids love it. Like we
have one of the things you'll see in the
videos. Mackenzie's Instagram is
basically all the videos of all these
workshops, right? And all she does is
just goes to school and films them,
right? And just films kids and you know
there's like half a million or a million
people who who love it cuz you're like,
"Wow, this is what school should be
like." Well, we have kindergarteners who
climb a 40ft rock wall,
>> right? And when you hear that and you're
not the alpha environment, you're like,
"Oh, that is so bad. That's so whacked.
That's too hard." Right? And but when
you actually see the kids go through it,
right, they love it, right? But it's
hard. Like, you know, we mike up the
kids as they're going up it, right? And
you know, you'll see somebody that's
just like, "Okay,
>> this is scary, but I have a growth
mindset. I can do this, right?" And then
they achieve it, right? And it's all
safe, right? And then they do it and
they come down and they're beaming and
they're like, "Oh, this was great." Our
guides, right, who create these
workshops, right? We have a whole
library of the ones we've developed and
we're always constantly, you know, what
are the ones that really work and what
are the new ones we're trying. But last
August, our second grade guy, Faith, she
comes and she's like, "Okay,
all the second graders can um run a 5K
in less than 35 minutes." And I was
like, "Oh,
this one that seems too hard.
>> That seems too hard. And God, the
parents are really not going to like
that if that doesn't work, you know."
Um, and she she's like, "I know it. I
can." You know, she was an athlete at
UT. She's like, "They totally can.
>> Let's do it.
>> Let's do it." And she's like, "Now,
here's the key. We teach, you know,
kindergarten, first grade, teach a lot
of growth mindset. You should think you
can, right? You guys can do anything."
And she's like, "We got to start
teaching them in second grade how to do
anything. Not just think it, but how to
do it." She's like, "We're going to
teach them atomic habits, right? The
book atomic habits, which is 1% better,
basically, right? And you know, most
adults don't learn that till after
college when they read the book. But the
concepts in that book, you can teach a
second grader.
>> Everybody gets it, right? And so she
gets all the kids together and she's
like, "We're going to run a, you know, a
5K. Who thinks that's impossible?"
>> And like every kid's like, "Okay, that's
totally possible. I can't do that." You
know, Miss Faith. And she goes out to
the track and she's like, "I've signed
you guys all this in August. I signed
you up for the Jingle 5K, you know, at
the domain uh at Christmas. We're going
to run it. Here we go. And she's like,
"But day one, we're just going to walk
the track."
>> And all the kids walk the 5K. And she's
like, "Okay, so we've established
everybody's going to finish the race."
>> Yeah.
>> Right. And then the next time they go
out, they run a quarter lap, walk the
rest, half lap lap, right? And they
incrementally do it so that by December,
right, these kids are uh able to run the
5K in 35 minutes. And you look at the
finish line, right? And the parents, the
kids are crying and it's so awesome and
but the and back to the life skill that
you taught. It's not just the heart,
right? They love that it was difficult,
but they sit there and they're just
like,
>> "Mom, dad, I know how to do anything
now, right? And I have those skills that
I'm developing." And as a parent, you're
like, "That's the life skill that you
want your kid to know how to do, right?"
And the way to do it though, first,
right, back to the how the whole system
has to work. You have to have a system
where the kids love school, where it
only takes two hours. So you have these
afternoons to do this. And then you have
to have those three beliefs, right?
Those three things, including high
standards is the key to your kids'
happiness, right?
>> It's an amazing lesson. Can we talk
about these guides? I think everyone
listening will imagine an amazing
teacher that they've had or their kids
had. Maybe they'll also imagine a
terrible teacher that they've had or
their kids had. It matters a lot. Um, I
can cite my favorite teacher, you know,
looking back to third grade or whatever.
What have you learned about who these
people are, who they should be, what
skills they should have, what role they
should play? Like same same, you know,
blank sheet of paper, first principles
approach here, I'm sure. Yeah.
>> Walk us through that part of this.
>> So, first part when you hear about AI
tutors and all this stuff, that's just
the the complete wrong misconception is
adults in the building are critical.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. There's no, you know, people have
this image of robot terminators and
terminology. We actually have a lot of
discussion around the terminology.
Should we call them teachers, right? But
they don't do academic teaching. So if
you are an adult in our buildings, you
do not do academic teaching. And so
that's why when we start, we're like,
okay, we we shouldn't call them teachers
then because it gives the wrong
impression. So guides and coaches, but
then you're like, well, people think
they're teachers and it's a new role for
teachers. Anyway, we'll see. Uh, we'll
figure it out. But fundamentally it's uh
what matters and so think about this is
every adult has one or two teachers who
transform them their life right every
adult has that um our guides are that
for our students like literally we have
a survey question that we ask every
eight weeks which is that exact question
to kids which is every adult had one or
two teachers who transformed your life
is your guide that for you and that is
the standard we hold our guides up right
these these adults, right? These guides,
coaches, and teachers, right? Their job
is and what they're accountable for is
to deliver the three commitments to the
kids that they love school, they learn
2X and learn life skills that they're
accountable for that. And they are seen
by the kids as you are transforming my
life. And so you think about how do you
who who's good at that? The first part
of it is and this gets back to academics
and the teacher in front of a classroom.
The reason, whoever is in your head, the
reason they transform your life is not
because they graded your seventh grade
science quiz really well, right? It
wasn't, right? It's because they met you
and motivated you and understood you,
right? And they probably held you to a
high standard and convinced you that you
could do a lot more.
>> Back to the key to your happiness and
success is high standards, right? High
support, high standards. Great teachers,
right, are high support, high standards,
right? There's a great book if if your
your readers should um Dr. Joerger has a
book called 10 to 25, how to motivate
10. It's a great book, right? And we
work with him a lot on all this stuff.
And that is, you know, every guide at
Alpha, you know, lives that philosophy.
And
>> that is what you're looking for. you are
looking for individuals who right can
hold high standards but also high
support right and it's different at age
right so if you go into a kindergarten
you're going to get you know charity or
mallerie right and they're going to wrap
your kid in love because that's what
right at kindergarten that's what you
want right but as you get up to middle
school and high school they're going to
be able to sit there and bond with you
over okay let's talk about the high
standards right look at all these great
things that you can do and So, it's it
it's various things, but we hire um
because you don't have to teach seventh
grade science in our school, we actually
hire ex coaches, as an example,
ex-coaches, athletes. Um we'll talk
about like we have a sports academy,
right? And we literally have exNBA
coaches, exNFL players, XMLB players,
right? And they're awesome at holding
high standards and uh providing great
motivation uh for the kids. And so when
you don't have to do the academic side,
right, you bring in all those other
things and you focus 100% on I'm going
to hold high standards for the kids. I'm
going to be able to motivate them. Like
we we probably are the only school where
you know we have a system where you can
go in for every kid and see every
motivation that's ever been tried by any
guide at Alpha to motivate them to see
what do they really love how do you
engage this kid what are their interests
right and so our guides spend time
getting to know the kids you know during
you know as an example during the
two-hour session right the kids do
25minute pomodoras what the guide will
do is pull the kid out oneon-one they're
like you're I'm not going to do the math
stuff today. You know, come sit down and
talk to me. And the guide's going to be
like, "Oh, you know, how was your
weekend? What happened? Oh, you know,
did you win the softball game? You know,
whatever happened?" And get to know, you
know, oh, you seem to be, you know, not
as engaged anymore. What's going on? And
they they talk through all of that
>> um with them. And so they get to know
the kids, right? and get them to, you
know, we talk about there's Mount Alpha
that you're climbing up and your guide
is there to help the students get up get
up the mountain. People who love to do
that, right, are um the ones you want to
hire.
>> You know, we we pay our guides a lot
more at Alpha than standard teachers.
And
>> how much more like what percentage more?
>> Our minimum pay for a teacher is
$100,000. And so like in the in the
Austin market, you know, that's
basically double the pay of it. And you
know, you're going to go get great
talent and you're going to get great
talent not just in teachers. So we can
go get people who are the best teachers
in any teaching one, but you can also
get people who aren't traditionally
teachers, right? And that's very much
what we believe, you know, um and the
the core of it really is students want,
you know, they they want these great
teachers and you know, you don't have a
class size problem. the economics of a
school are based on, you know,
fundamentally how much do you pay the
teachers and what your class size is.
That's, you know, we have some other
other economics like our AI and our
workshop costs, but fundamentally that's
driving, you know, the economics of of
schooling. And so, uh, you know, at the
lower grades, we we have, you know, low
tooling, which is, you know, you're
going to have five students per per
guide. But as you get older,
>> what you actually find is students don't
want that.
>> You know, at, you know, by the time you
get to middle school, they're like, "Mr.
Limont, you know, I'm an adolescent. You
know, I I don't need all these guides
around, right? And, you know, they want
more freedom, but the the ones they
want, they want really high caliber,
awesome people who are going to know
them and and motivate them and hold them
to high standards.
>> All right, I want to talk about feedback
loops. Okay,
>> this is something that we've referenced
many a time. It's a it's a huge part of
your success outside of Alpha and
leading up to Alpha that's allowed you
to fund it and be such a force behind
it. In your life, you seem to have
learned a tremendous amount about the
power of well- enforced feedback loops.
So maybe just like give us the
foundation of this belief and then I
want to talk about all the many ways in
which you've been able to deploy these
learnings into the alpha school setting
to give kids feedback uh not just
motivation but show them their progress,
show parents, show show coaches and and
and guides. Where did this like deep
belief in the power of iterative
feedback come from in the first place?
>> There's two parts to it I guess. um sort
of the individual level and then the
systemic level which is you know part of
the the feedback loops that are really
important and you know the biggest uh
you know yet to be proven part is uh we
need to scale this
>> right we need to scale this we need to
get this out to a billion kids and so
how are you going to measure right and
success and so I I always look at myself
as sort of I'm a product person but then
okay how do you put in the systems that
allow it to scale.
>> And the key to the systems scaling is
the feedback loop that you know what's
going on. So when we open a campus,
>> how do I know that the kids love school,
>> right? How do I know that the parents
are super excited? How do I know they're
learning 2x in two hours? Right? Are the
right did we hire are the guides
awesome? Right? Is my guide in New York
City going to be as good as my guide in
Alpha? And how do I Right? And so how
are we going to be able to measure it
all? And so the the key on all these
feedback loops is if you want to scale
it, you have to measure it, right? And
you have to provide that loop if we're
going to be able to say we're going to
keep this quality at standard at scale.
You know, there's sort of all that that
we can talk about and that's, you know,
a big part of what AI enables. It
enables a scaling at quality that, you
know, I believe 10 years ago you you
couldn't have done. And then the second
one around feedback loops is receiving
feedback right is like one of our most
important life skills right to teach is
that you know if you are somebody who
actively seeks feedback to get better
right that is one of the most important
life skills you can teach somebody and
it's a receive feedback is one of our
you know in our in our life skill stack
you know where we have you know you know
at at kindergarten
right? Our our test to pass. Like for
all our life skills, we have a a test
that you have to pass because you have
to be able to measure it, right?
>> And so it's like, can you receive
feedback without crying,
>> right, in kindergarten? And you sort of
move up to by eighth grade, do you know
that the key to you getting better is
actively seeking critical feedback?
>> Right? And do you actively go seek it
out in order to improve? Right? the the
day that alpha parents get really happy
is when their kid comes home and is
like, "Mom, dad, you know, I I know I
haven't been a good member of the
family. How can I how can I be better?"
Right? And it's, you know, they're like,
"Okay, this right?" And so that whole
concept of seeking out in order to
improve, right? That concept is critical
to just human development, getting
better. It's, you know, we we call it
watching game film,
>> right? Great athletes are like, "Yeah,
I'm going to go watch the game. How'd I
do? And how am I going to get it
better?" Right? We actually do the same
thing on the academics, right? We have
game film where you're like, why did I
screw up these questions on the test,
right? And they literally will sit there
and say, I missed this question because
I didn't know the material or oh, this
was a careless mistake. Right? So, they
can start to sit there and say, what is
is my problem I don't know it or
actually I'm, you know, test taking
skills.
>> And you help them do that like you show
them the game tape of themselves
learning.
>> Exactly. Well, that's part of like when
we talk about our AI tutoring, we didn't
get into all the technology. how we use
it is completely different than what
everybody else thinks.
>> I believe that, you know, there's this
whole view that we are going to deploy
chat GPT
to everybody in America and things are
going to get better because everybody
needs to use AI, right? And if you take
away from alpha, you're like, "Oh, we
should have played chat GPD to
everybody." Okay,
>> wrong take away.
>> It's going to it is that is the
literally the worst thing you could do.
Just to be very clear, you are not a
principal at a school if you think
chatbt is good. 90% of the use of chatbt
is to cheat.
>> Kids take it. Now, there are 10% use
case of people who are like, I need a
Socratic tutor where I'm super excited
about it and I need to dive in deeper,
right? And that 5 to 10%. Those kids are
going to crush it with it. And you
should give it to those five or 10%. 90%
of the kids are like, "How do I use this
to cheat?" Okay? And so, like we
>> cuz they want their time back. because
they want their time back because
they're just trying to get through it.
We literally don't have chat
functionality activated in our AI.
>> Like it is not a chatbot. It's terrible.
Yeah.
>> Um and that's not what people need.
Right. Back to where we use the AI is
generating personalized lesson plans and
personalized lessons themselves. Right.
That is a great use of AI. A second
great use of AI is actually to watch the
screen and coach the kids,
>> right? To give them the game film. We're
like, you're, you know, and and we can
go from the remedial of, hey kid, you're
like literally scrolling through the
article and looking at the questions and
trying to search because you don't want
to read the whole article. Just that's
not really going to work well. Or, you
know, when you miss a question, you
know, here's the video that can help
explain it, the little explainer to of
of what you got wrong, and you skip it
every time.
>> If you really want to get out of here in
two hours,
>> read it.
>> You need to do it. Like our our biggest
thing is our vision model, right? Which
is actually part of the big expensive
part because you're streaming full-time
thing. It's it's it'll come down in
cost, but right now it's it's a lot is
we have a waste meter because once
again, if you are going to give the kids
the time back,
>> they want the time back
>> and they want to get better. They want
to become a more self-driven learner
where they can move through this faster.
So we literally like you're wasting 50%
of your time.
>> And the kids like, whoa, coach me up. I
don't want to waste 50% of my time. So
I'm spending three hours when I could
spend two,
>> right? And so the giving them the
coaching of how to learn better, right?
How to learn faster and more
effectively, right? That's a great use
of AI.
>> So just so I understand like the I
almost want to like imagine we have the
engineers of the system here with us and
we're now in a technical explainer. The
the thing is built, I'm interacting with
it. There's different things I can do
and not do. It is the entire process me
looking at it the the touches the
scrolls everything is being monitored
completely and that is being fed what
through through what kind of system like
that sounds complicated like how how
does that system know it's the little
thing at the end that the explainer that
I'm skipping like help me understand the
engineering of the thing use Khan
Academy since everybody understands it
and imagine a dynamically generated con
lesson the video is dynamically
generated the video can basically be
about half as long as a con video
because using the concepts of learning
science and and more active, right?
Passive is bad. So more active
engagement, you can teach kids in less
time. Uh and it's based on their
interests, right? And and so you're
you're doing that and then the the video
stream itself is actually being fed to
an AI model that is sitting there
looking for anti-atterns. Okay?
>> Right? What are the things that kids do?
cuz you know basically what are things
that their kids do that slow them down
that are you know learning anti-atterns
and so it's looking for those and then
when it has it's going to be like ooh
look that's waste and then it's going to
you know update the ma waste meter or
flag the kid and say stop doing it right
depending on on what the mode is and
when you think about the technology
behind it just think of back to that
data what's valuable data the same way
having the data stream of all the Tesla
cars running right? That you're then
saying, "Okay, what are we doing?" The
data stream of, "Okay, here's what kids
do when they're learning and what they
shouldn't do and what to avoid." Um, and
then you move it to so the first phase
is go find all the antiatterns and then
the second one is coach them up on it.
>> So, so maybe maybe it's a data stream
just a raw data stream that you that you
have privileged generation of because
the students are using the thing. Maybe
talk about the team behind this. So,
like how many engineers are working on
this? what kinds of people are they like
where did they come from? Are these like
the best engineers from your trilogy
days? Like who are these people? Sure.
Um and and then what is their process of
turning the raw data stream into
actionable lessons in the software?
>> There's a couple different parts to it.
So incept is the core generation engine.
Um and the name actually matters. Uh and
I this is important especially with AI
and education which is incept sort of
has two definitions. one is um the
movie, right? And but it's important.
You're putting a mind virus in kids's
head, right? That's what you're doing
when you're educating a kid, right? You
putting these these thoughts into kids's
heads. There's a second definition
though, like from a thousand years ago,
the original from Cambridge and Oxford
>> which was qualified to teach
>> and there was a subtle underpinning of
you trust the person, right? Teachers
are trusted because you're putting
things into kids's heads, right? And
it's important to understand it's two
parts. You're putting stuff in a kid's
head and you need to be trusted on
what's going in. And there's going to be
a lot of controversy, I believe. You
know, there is just in AI in general,
but especially in education of how we
make sure these are trusted generators
that are putting things in. You have Tik
Tok as a untrusted generator that
currently dominates, right? Um we should
talk later about our standard of, you
know, Tik Tok um as our competition,
which is we have to out Tik Tok Tik Tok
if we're going to take over, right?
getting the right thoughts into kids
heads. So there's the incept team and
the incept team you should think is we
use all the different LLMs. We have our
stuff on top of it where we are
generating content and it's going to be
taking in streams of okay what's the
curriculum we're doing? What is the kids
knowledge graph? What is their interest
graph? What is their cognitive load
right model? And then be able to
generate the dynamic lesson. And so you
should think this is going to be your
standard AI type team embedded with
massive
a set of learning scientists. So the
difference between us and sort of a
standard just using a normal LLM to
generate content is we have probably the
biggest team best team of learning
scientists
>> um who are building this
>> and that's a critical aspect of it. Um
that's why if you just have and why I
believe all the LLMs that are out and
you know all the educational ones
they're they're not embedded with
learning science right they don't follow
these principles right they don't embed
mastery and all these other concepts and
that's why generally when you give them
to kids they just use them to cheat
>> um so you have that side then the second
side is you're like okay I have this
data stream right and now I'm basically
it's a video model right it's just a
vision model and you're just sitting
sitting there saying, "How do I um
optimize this vision model to find what
I need?" But how it started is literally
just humans, right? When you talk about
human annotation,
>> Yeah.
>> just watching videos. So 3 years ago, we
would just sit there and have teams of
people all night,
>> you know, the kids would finish and then
all night you would just sit and watch
the videos and annotate them of, okay,
that's what's going wrong here. this is
what the kids doing. all of this like
reinforcement learning
>> and it is and it's just building out a
video model a reinforcement learning
video model of you know with human
feedback and the human feedback is not
from the kids it's from people watching
it to say I need to train this up on
what how kids learn and what is
effective learning what are the
anti-atterns and what do we want to
coach for and so then you you you take
that and literally the first you know
the first month back three years ago
August we literally would just take the
output of watching the videos and then
the guys would just tell the kids the
next day.
>> Fundamentally, that's what you're doing
is you need a vision model where you are
sitting there training it on how to have
kids learn better, right? How to be more
effective, where are the the things and
you need so and back to the streams,
right? You need this where you're
generating content. You need this to see
are they engaging with it, right? And
then you need to be saying, am I really
moving the standardized test scores? I
mean, are the kids really learning this
material? You need that whole closed
loop to be able to say okay yes we came
up with this concept we generated this
material right and okay look yes the
kids are learning right and you can
measure that
>> can we talk about the third one as the
kid sees it so this is really this is
really help I'm glad we're going to a
little bit more technical side of things
so we've got incept we've got the vision
model and then we've got the feedback
mechanism or whatever at the
standardized testing how does the kid
feel that like in in in the in the
anonymous um parents post about the
school they talked about um you know
hitting your minimums and um your weekly
scores, your daily scores like things
like this like your the kids seem to
have this gamified sense of their own
progress. Sure.
>> So what have you learned about
presenting that well and using that like
that that that that last closing part of
the loop?
>> Sure. So the kids the kids motivation.
So how do you how do you drive kids
motivation? And so um you know at the
end of it you're you're giving them a
measure of you know how much do you have
to do a day and how much do you want to
do a day and so you have a goal setting
part where okay kids you can set your
goals
>> right and you know this is what I want
to this is what I want to achieve then
from that you're like okay the system
can tell you you need to do this much
>> actually last year one of the changes
we're making for the year coming up is
we do okay you finished a lesson right
and one of the problems is lessons are
different lengths, right? Oh, this is a,
you know, you have a 25minute pomodoro
and okay, I have two 15-minute lessons.
>> What's a pomodoro?
>> Pomodoro is a 25 minute segment that the
kids do
>> um for each subject. So, they're going
to do math, science, language, reading.
Actually, they can do whatever order,
but um it's 25 minutes. So, you you
basically go into the app
>> and in the morning during the two-hour
session and you're like, "Okay, I'm
going to spend 25 minutes in that,
>> right?" And then the system is going to
give you the lessons. Yep.
>> Right. And you're gonna be like, "Okay,
>> here's the lessons I'm going to do. Um,
and I'm going to do them to mastery. So,
I'm going to do them to the highest
standard possible. I have rings, you
know, that close that say like the
watch.
>> You did it." Yeah. It's just it
literally it's just like the watch and
it's just like the Apple Watch where
it's going to be like,
>> you know, you did it at the high
accuracy, right? If you're doing it with
low accuracy, you're not learning,
right? You're just guessing and you're
screwing around. So, you have to have
80% accuracy, right? you did it to
mastery, right? You didn't um uh sort of
the mass practiced up front where you
you you locked it in and I spent the
time. I did spend the 25 minutes and
then your ring closes. Boom. You get it.
And so, and the kids, back to
gamification, they have to do their
two-hour sessions to unlock their
afternoons, right? And so all these
privileges come around because you
unlock things,
>> right? And so, you know, and when you
come into alpha, actually your first day
and I'm transferring from standard
school, you actually go into what we
call standard school where you literally
sit at a desk, right? And it's it's like
you're in standard school and it's like,
okay, your job is to become a two-hour
learner,
>> right? Where you learn the skills so
that you can learn in two hours instead
of six hours. And the kids are like, I'm
all into this. Let me do it. And so
they're going to learn how to engage in
the apps, right? How to use them
correctly. You know, if I don't if I sit
and spin in my chair all day, right? I'm
I'm not going to be a two-hour learner,
right? I'm going to be stuck,
>> right? Then as you achieve, right? Back
to motivation models. As you show you
can be a two-hour learner. Oh, I hit all
my rings this week, right? I I basically
finished my lessons, right? You graduate
to be a two-hour learner, which then
unlocks all these different privileges,
right? And our guides have different
ones at different levels, but you know,
think when you see the alpha pictures
where the kids are in a bean bag with
their computer, right, or sitting at a
right, not sitting at a desk, right?
They've unlocked those privileges where
they're like, "Yeah, you know how to be
a self-driven learner. You can do it
however you want."
>> Um, you know, the the booths, you know,
the booths that we have, they're
literally like the phone booths that you
see in the Silicon Valley. We have those
in our schools. uh you know and they're
famous in our in our middle and high
school because kids voluntarily go in
those where students learn where where
do I learn best and I'll take like my
daughter's an example where you know we
have a communal table where you can all
just sit together you know if you're a
two-hour learner you can just sit at the
table my uh daughter she's a talker and
she's like I I can't sit at the communal
table right cuz I won't get anything
done because I'm just going to sit and
talk to my friends and so she'll like
say I'm going to go into one of booths
right so I can get it done and kids
right they learn this right you can all
kids learn I totally know how to become
a learner and if they have the
motivation i.e you're giving them their
time back. They all do those skills
where you talk about do kids have
agency, right? And do they own their
learning and are they self-driven?
That's all part of the system, right?
That has to where you create these
two-hour learners which are basically
you're creating self-driven learners
which when you think long-term, right,
that's a critical life skill that you re
you really want to have. But you know
and then how do you how do you how do
you game it you know or what is the
gamification there is all different ones
where you know um guides will have ones
where you have individualized goals you
have team goals you know um our
Brownsville campus like the biggest
motivated for the youngest kids is um
the petting zoo right so if the whole
level right exceeds all their academics
for a week right and a session right
they get a petting zoo right and that
that drives when you talk about
motivation. Yeah. Okay.
>> They don't want money. They don't want
you get right the bunny and the petting
zoo. Those kids would they they'd go do
10 hours of homework. C
>> can you talk for the kids that do want
money about alphab?
>> Sure. So uh we have a whole economy
based on you know alphas and um you know
alphas are used where fundamentally you
know you do these academics then you can
earn alphas and uh then how can you
spend those alphas
>> right there's a lot of motivations that
parents love
>> right oh the petting zoo that sounds
really cool or I get more privileges
right I earn privileges stuff those two
money is obviously the controversial one
right that causes everybody to just go
oh my god right and that's a terrible
horble one. Um, so let's I'm going to
give a couple a couple examples of it.
Your kid can earn money for doing
academics. Parents generally like, okay,
I don't like that. Now, your kid can
earn money by doing academics so they
can fund their passion project so that
their afternoon workshop that they're
trying to do, so when she's trying to do
the Broadway musical and has to fly up,
she's going to earn money that's going
to allow her to do that. Parents like,
"Okay, that seems okay. That seems like
a really good idea." or since this
audience, it's going to fund your
financial literacy investment account
and we're going to take all the middle
school kids and if they crush their
academics, we're going to fund an
investment of Robin Hood for kids or
whatever, you know, whatever investment
fund to teach them investing because the
key if you're going to teach a kid to
invest is make sure it's real money in
theirs and it's something they earned,
not given, right? Because your loss
aversion, right, and all that. Oh,
parents are like, "Oh, that's a great
idea. I love that. we're going to have a
50% penalty for early withdrawal, right?
Parents like that, too. Actually,
they're like, we're going to teach them
to save, right? And so, there's all
these behaviors around money that are
good. And so, those those are all
examples that are our our system does
with you can earn the alpha bucks and
then and have those. This is what every
parent should do. Uh cuz this is super
controversial. Everybody hates it. And
if you care about academics, this is the
single best thing you can do to fix
academics. So the number one issue in
academics for kids and let's start at
middle school is the reason they're
struggling and if you look at the curves
in learning in America right they all
start to flatten out in middle school.
The median person in high school in
America actually doesn't learn anything.
>> Like
>> scary
>> that in a MAPS test, which is a 300point
scale, the median American, right,
goes up one point in four years.
>> Wow.
>> One point on a 300 point scale. Not
learn anything.
>> And it starts slowing down in middle
school. And you mo motivation,
engagement's an issue. The other is just
it's the it's it's the ramification of
having a timebased education system
instead of a mastery based education
system. You just, you know, and and and
Saul Khan in com video you go, he has
great videos around this where he's just
like, you know, when you're not when
you're pushing people up and they've
only learned 70 or 80% of the
curriculum, you should think it's like
Swiss cheese, right? It's like you're
building a foundation with all these
holes,
>> right? And then eventually as you get
high enough it just gets too much and it
collapses and you can't learn anymore.
And that's what happens when kids hit
algebra, right? And some and and moving
up is it's there. The problem is not the
algebra, it's the prior knowledge,
right? And so the number one thing we do
is okay, we need to go fill your holes.
And so let's talk about marketing and
motivation, which is actually probably
half my job, you know, as principal. is
if you go to a seventh grader and say,
"Look, dude, it's it's not your fault.
However you got here,
you don't know this fifth grade
material.
So, I need I need you to go back." Okay?
They are not into it at all. And the
only person who's less into it than the
student
>> is their like parents have been taught,
"My kid needs to be at grade level no
matter what."
>> Yeah. And that's just the opposite of
what the learning science says, right?
And you know, it's the opposite of what
a tutor does. When you hire a tutor for
your school, all they're doing is
saying, "Dude, just give me a fifth
grade lesson." And they don't call it a
fifth grade lesson or whatever, but
that's what you're doing.
>> Fundamentals,
>> correct? And everybody understands when
you when you apply this concept to
sports. Every parent gets it. They all
get it. They're like, "Yeah, master the
basics." When it comes to academics,
it's like, "No, no, no. Do all the
advanced alley oops." That is a
fundamental like how parents think about
the world is just not right that and so
you're like how do you fix it right? I
got to deliver it you know and so I went
to the seventh graders I'm like guys all
of you can get a 100% on the Texas Star
you know the Texas standardized test and
they're like no way Mr. Lee no way I'm
like and back to money motor day I'm
like I'll give you a $100 bill for a
hundred on the Texas Star 100 for 100.
>> They're like that's still impossible.
>> I I can't get one. I'm like no no no
there's a catch.
any grade level.
>> They're like, "I can take a kindergarten
Texas Star and you're give me $100." And
I'm like, "Well, the Texas Star starts
in third grade." And they're like,
"Okay, I'll take a third grade test."
>> Yeah.
>> And I'm like, "Great."
>> And so they go take a third grade test
with Star, they get 100. You give them
$100 bill.
>> They're like, "Can I do fourth grade?"
I'm like, "Absolutely." They do fourth
grade, get a $100 bill, right? They're
like, "Okay, you're really going to let
me do fifth grade?" I'm like,
"Absolutely." And so they take it and
they get an 85, right? 75 or 85. And I'm
like,
and I'm like, do you want the AI tutor
to generate the lessons so you can get
100? And they're like, let me see how
many. And then they see it and they're
like, I can do that in a week. And
they're like, I'm in. And then they get
a hundred, right? And then you do sixth
grade. Right? And for literally $400,
we can do two really important things.
We can hole fill as we call it which is
we can go back and for whatever reason
wherever your kid is you can go back and
fill all those holes
and put them on a foundation where they
can keep learning but second you
actually change how they think which is
I can get 100 on a Texas star every
parent like if you actually survey alpha
parents fewer than 10% of them think
kids can get a 100red on a Texas star
and that's because in the time based
model, the GT kids, right? Only the
super smart kids got 100, right? In a
mastery based model, everybody can. It's
just a matter of effort. It's not about
IQ. It's just about effort. And as soon
as you break that link for a kid,
>> it changes everything about education
where they sit there and they're like, I
can totally do this. Oh my god. Right?
And so, you know, if you take the alpha
stats, first of all, 90 plus% of our
kids who've been in there at school a
year are like, I can totally get 100 on
a Texas start. Right? And the reason is
because they have during the year,
right? Like our building, our our our
one of our our building, our K through6
building, um, uh, down in Austin
>> gets more hundreds on the Texas Star
than a school district of a 100,000
kids.
>> Right. Because it's just a different
mentality and a mastery based thing and
you don't advance until you know it.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. And so, and you know, and you sit
there and back to motivation and how do
you get it right? If you make everything
100, everybody thinks it's too hard. So
you say you can pass at 90 but 100 for
100 and everybody's like okay I'll do
the extra work it's only a couple
questions right
>> cuz when they if they get less than 100
right the AI tutor is like here's the
ones you missed was it careless or did
you not know it and if you didn't know
it can I you want want me to give you
the lesson and so the kids can get to
mastery right you put in this motivation
this very lightweight motivation we
spend 20 grand a kid in this country
across you know alpha's 40,000 plus but
we spend plenty of money for $100 or
$400, we could literally change how
everybody sees both their capability and
how they see themselves.
>> Um, and that's a part that just, you
know, back to motivation that really
matters is that's a perfect example of
using money in order to get people to
change how they think about themselves.
And a lot of, you know, kids have a view
that they have these limits, right?
That's high standards, high support.
That's what you know guides are doing is
they're breaking through it right and in
academics right kids have these hang-ups
right of you know look I can't I can't
learn that much
>> right I'm I'm that kid and uh my
daughter will probably kill me but I'll
use her on this one um as an example. So
when she got to middle school, right,
she was top she got to top 10% and she's
just like, you know, dad, I'm and her
older sister is the um uh academic one,
right, of the two. She's like, you know,
I'm I'm not like uh my older sister,
right? Uh I'm top 10%, that's good
enough. I'm not top 1%. And I was like,
you know, the one thing I know about you
that you care about more than anything
is you love to shop. And so, how about
a,000 bucks? I bet you a,000 bucks that
you can't get to top 1%.
And she's like, right, she's in middle
school and she like fills her Amazon
cart with $1,000 of stuff. And she would
just look at it in the morning, right?
And then go grind and just do her apps,
you know? And we had a lot of family
discussions about this cuz you know uh
my wife and is like okay so first of all
you're paying for academics and you know
you're setting this really high standard
and all this stuff and is this going to
be good for her
>> and all these things and that that's
common right that's you're back to
parent you don't you don't want to set
too high a standard and is this
motivation bad anyway she got to top 1%
and you know she buys all her stuff and
she sits down actually with my wife and
is like, "Mom, I know you didn't like us
doing this, right? But you need to
understand what it did to my view, which
is I never thought I was as smart as my
older sister. I now realize I can do
anything."
>> I'm sure listening to a story of your
daughter, thank you for telling it. Um,
every single parent, myself included, is
just going to picture their kids' faces
in their in their mind and agree
instantly that they would do anything
for this moment of unlock or or several
of them,
>> which demands the I think really
important and exciting question, which
is how the hell are we going to scale
this system across the country? So like
like so many things like a great product
it tends to get built in a small space
where it's artisal and you're trying
stuff and you're figuring out the system
and then hopefully you know like
software you can you can spread it and
scale it across the country.
>> What are the uh what are the biggest
barriers to that being possible? Let's
talk on the technology side which
because it's not ready yet and we have a
whole team of people who wake up every
day trying to make it ready to scale
>> broadly right and the engine right the
time back engine
>> um we still have hallucinations right
it's AI they're still and you know in
the alpha environment an alpha
environment is super safe
>> the kids love school they're all stuff
but high school kids literally it comes
up with some whack job thing and the
kids take a screenshot and send it in
like AI's acted up today, right? And
it's fine, right? Um you release that
into the wild and right AI robot tutors
terribleness. And so we're we got a
burndown chart of how we're going to you
know, we think and we do believe that
next year, right? Um we'll we hope to
have betas, you know, between August and
and December of this year. We're going
to this platform will be out and and so
the first part is I got to get the
technology a little better. Once that's
done, now you get into what are your
channels of distribution, right? And so
obviously homeschools like the biggest
thing is there's millions parents who
like okay let me let me do this at home.
And so the the biggest thing we have a
test with 50 plus homeschoolers
you know the problem on all of this on
the technology technology is 10% of the
solution,
>> right? It's only 10. So my 10% still
doesn't work yet. It's got to but then
how you solving the 90% of motivation.
So when you're in an alpha building,
right, or one of our schools, then all
of a sudden you're like, and we Yeah, we
control it and we we have the motivation
and we do it all.
>> You're at a home school. Is there any
motivational model? So our test, we're
not getting 2x in two hours with the
homeschool kids. Now we literally every
time we test it, we're ch we're putting
building in motivational models, putting
in other things so that we can get
there. And so I believe next year we
will have a homeschool version that
somebody will be able to buy. the kids
going to be able to sit down and deliver
2x in two hours for sure. The second
part is schools, right? We're going to
have a platform that if a school wants
to adopt this,
>> right? Then we're you can absolutely do
it. Now, what are the hurdles? You got
to rebuild your whole school from the
ground up,
>> right? You can't just sort of tack it
on, right? This is a full rebuild. And
so, our school is really going to do
that. You know, public schools, they
have a 10 times harder job than me. If I
was a principal or a teacher or
superintendent of a public school, I,
you know, as a product guy, I'm like,
you have the most impossible job in the
world, and I never want to represent
that like what we're do. My job is 10
times easier because I control
everything. And you have a really hard
problem. I believe though we need to
start, right, getting lots of data,
right, proving out lots of things,
showing the efficacy, right, that this
works um with the hopes that in public
school, you know, a decade from now,
right? My my vision on this is I'm going
to spend the next 20 years of my life on
this,
>> right? And I'm going to need all 20 to
get the get everything in public school
spread. Um, for sure entrepreneurs need
to build new schools
>> and this 2hour
platform will cover the two hours for
you. You crush the afternoon.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. And let's go start. Let's have
entrepreneurial
and build on top of it. And so I'll give
you an example of one of one of the ones
that um uh it's not funded yet, but the
business plan is super awesome, which is
Texas just passed school choice billion
dollars. Um and so this this group is
basically they're building Texas Sports
Academy.
>> Their goal is to go to every school
district in Texas, right? Um and build a
micro school, which is going to be a
micro middle school for D1 athletes. and
they're, you know, they're going to be
based on the, you know, Timeback
platform. And then in the afternoon,
it's going to be one of the local
coaches, right, that everybody in town
reverses who is going to have a school,
middle school, right, for people who
want to be D1 athletes and they're going
to spend the afternoon doing whatever
awesome athletics, right? Whether I'm
seven on seven in football or we're
doing basketball or soccer,
>> um, all these things where you can
create these innovative educational
models,
>> right? So that for a kid who's like, "Oh
my god, I will go crush my" and their
their commitment that
>> they don't get to do the fun thing
unless they've done the time back. Yeah.
>> Unless they do the time back. And
because of that and because of the
learning science and the app, you know,
they're going to make a commitment that
when you look at their thousand school,
there's thousand school districts in
Texas, 1200 or something. They're like
our thousand schools, our thousand micro
schools. If you uh view us as an entire
school district,
>> we will be seen as the best school
district in test Texas academically like
we will have by far the best academics,
right? And you know tens of thousands of
kids will be in these micro schools,
right? And the their hope is to launch a
year from now when the you know the the
Texas ESA vouchers um come due.
>> And so and you can sit and see for
parents who are like wow that is an
economic model I could get behind,
right? or a education model I can get
behind where oh my god my kid's going to
love school he's going to crush the
academics and he's going to freaking do
a sports that he loves afternoon and you
know and that's the middle school
there's a whole set of parents who can
then go build that out as we prove this
out in scale there's actually a lot of
you know famous professional athletes
who are like I would love to start a
school like that
>> right and so I believe that's just a
whole huge opportunity
>> um there's another school that we've
started but it's one it's one unit and
we need the you know uh entrepreneurs to
scale it is uh GT school gifted and
talented school right and gifted and
talented school we define as you love
academics for academic sake like when
you're motivated
>> five or 10% you're talking about
>> yeah it's the five or 10% and my oldest
daughter is actually like that right and
she she loves it she in high school she
read calculus books for fun right and
you're like there is a set of people who
just love that and that's where you're
just uncapping those kids aren't
learning 2x in 2 hours they're learning
3x 4x 5x I mean they're just crushing it
because they love it when when we get
all the guides together. Um, you know,
and we're like, okay, how do we juice
love of school? You know, how do we make
kids, you know, how do we raise it? Um,
you know, the GT guides are like more
academics, right? We need a third power
hour, right? And all stuff and all the
other guys are like, no, we don't want
more academics, right? More life skills.
So, anyway, but GT, you can just
imagine, right? No, there should be 500
GT schools around the country, right?
built on the timeback platform where
kids who love that, right, can just, you
know, unleash it, right? They're um G
the GT school, it's new, but it's super
fun. I mean, those kids are like, you
know, we're going to be the last human
smarter than AI, right? And you
literally just have this great group of
kids who are just like, we love this
stuff and we just love academics for
academic sake. Um, and math Olympia and
robotics and writing novels and all
that. So, but every kid, right, back to
if you're when you really focus on kids
have to love school, you're like, okay,
there needs to be different school types
for different kids,
>> right? And so, you just this platform,
this timeback platform enables that
because you can sit and say, look, the
academics are done, right? The coach
doesn't need to teach the seventh grade
science, right? And the the platform
does it, right? The app does it. what
the coach does needs to motivate right
the kids and then do the afternoon um
workshops right in this case they'll be
athletic
>> and so if I think about scaling there's
lots of paths and they all need to be
tried there's the micro schools there's
entrepreneurs starting schools there's
refitting that probably happens later in
the adoption curve from maybe the public
schools are the very last in the adop
you know that classic like adoption
curve um but the answer is we got to we
just need to go hard at all of these
solutions where time back and the
motivation you know the the creativity
around sources of motivation are are
thoughtfully paired together. This is
one of the tasks that is on my list to
do is you know the first part is okay I
got to build this product
>> that makes kids learn 10 times faster.
Then the second is okay we have to have
these schools that are sort of the
exemplars that prove the case because no
one would believe it. And so Alpha
obviously is the flagship you know
high-end private school model. But
there's a third part that we have to
show um in order to really unleash stuff
and that's um a business model,
>> right? The business of education cuz you
know
>> capitalism enters the chat
>> and capitalism enters the chat, right?
That we need to bring capitalism in
here, right? And that's obviously a very
controversial you know view and my you
know view is with time back we have to
show here's a platform but you can build
great businesses on this right and you
have to be able to build great
businesses um in order to attract great
talent.
>> It's a trillion dollar market with no
good products.
>> The economics historically right of of
education having to work. This
completely changes it. I believe we're
gonna show I mean we're in the cash burn
phase and we're burning sort of hundreds
of millions of dollars you know building
all this this stuff out but um you know
given we're going to have it's just like
anything which is it's a huge market and
if you have an awesome product one the
one element is to that I guess I would
if I was talking to an entrepreneur
where everybody's like don't go into
education can't make any money it's
terrible it's failed you know all those
things
great products Right? Parents will
absolutely pay for great products.
Societies pay for great education.
Right? The amount that we spend a
trillion dollars for a relatively bad
product right now, right? And so as an
entrepreneur, if you look at this, you
build a great product, you actually can
build, right, great customer base,
right? And um you can actually it
doesn't have to be a money losing
nonprofit that's supported 100% on
donations which is the world today right
and that's not you can't sustainably
grow part of the problem on on schooling
today is everything has to be nonprofit
right the organization of nonprofit and
so then you just you're caught out
scaling right there are good school
system you know charter schools out
there you know um where their gating
factor is well I'm waiting for someone
to give me $40 million so I can build a
campus. I have a 3,000 person weight
list,
>> but you know, back to my economics,
>> I need someone to donate 40 million
versus, okay, well, let's build a really
good business model
>> that you can build a business model out
of it so you can open up 500 of them
because capitalism will provide capital.
>> Let's adopt like the ultra skeptic
mindset for a second. And as the
principal, I know you get to deal with
this because you're dealing not only
with parents that are at the school, but
parents that are considering joining it.
If you had to name a thing or two that
you struggle with the most personally,
not not skeptic skeptics that you can
answer easily, but skeptics that are
hard to answer, what what are the
hardest to answer skeptical points of
argument that you come across most
often?
>> Well, I mean, your best example right
now is just we we haven't done this at
scale.
>> Yeah. Easy for you to say you got all
this money all
>> you have infinite money, you know,
small, you know, selection effect size,
all those kind of things. Absolutely. If
the the viewpoint is well there's
seedlings of data here right of trying
to figure out wow look at some of these
data points of what we can do and have
been able to do and then figure out how
would you scale it.
>> Um but fundamentally the best example is
okay you're this really high-end private
school right and you have massive you
know you have all these adults you have
all this money um around that. Um the
the the bigger one is you know you get
into is the the biggest issue education
is hard because you have to define the
product and your customer bases have
very different needs. Right? This is why
when I talk about public school being
impossible. You parents do not agree on
what the purpose of an education is.
>> Right? What a parent wants in education
right is right
>> a big bundle. It's a huge bundle and
they're diametrically opposed and you
know we're having that in Austin on the
public school side where we have three
schools that have failed you know the
standardized tests and you know and so
they're trying to be shut down you know
and the kids move to schools where you
know the superintendent's like okay you
know he proposed we're going to shut
them down and move the kids to schools
where you know the kids do better
>> and you know academically you know and
there's parents who are like I don't
care about that
>> I don't care that the school academics
is failing it because you know my oldest
daughter went to that school and the
teacher, the seventh grade teacher there
is so great and I know her kids don't
really learn math but she transformed
their life and they're going to pick it
and say I don't want academics. Um
actually stepping back if you had to say
back to this problem you know one of the
things that I did not realize going in
is how few parents actually care about
academics.
>> Back to product market fit and pivoting
and all that stuff as a product side.
You know, three years ago, I would sit
down in the parent meetings and I'd be
like, "Look, if your kids's gonna engage
in the app, they're going to learn twice
as much. 2x learning, right?" And I just
be like, "Twox learning." And you'd sit
there with the parent, you're like,
"Look, you know, Johnny's not watching
the video." And, you know, if you just
watch the video after he misses a
question, he learned twice as much. And
you know, the parents are like, "Look,
why are you pressuring him to learn 2x?"
Right? They just they don't want it. Um,
and it took me hundreds of parent
meetings to sort of I was slow on the on
the listen to the customer side. And
then we switched it to two-hour
learning. And then you're like, same
meeting, same parents, same Johnny. And
you're like, look, I'm trying to get
Johnny out of here in two hours, right?
But he won't watch the video, right? And
he can't do the workshops until he does.
And the parents are like, Johnny, like,
why don't you watch the video? Don't you
want to do the cool things? And so, back
to product market fit. Figuring out
>> positioning matters.
>> Positioning matters. And every parent
wants stuff differently. If you took,
you know, when when McKenzie like puts
her GT families and the sports academy
families, you know, and she has a lunch
with them, you know, and the parents and
talking about it. Parents want different
things for their kid, you know. The
sports academy mom is just like, "My
kids come home from sports academy and,
you know, they're sweating so much. I
literally just throw them in the shower
fully clothed, you know."
>> You know, and the GT parents are like,
"What is wrong with you?" They're like,
"Well, GT school was having a chess um
tournament at the end of the day, and
when they came home, we just continued
the the tournament, right? And it's just
parents want different things. There's
not one sizefits-all, and we need
entrepreneurs who are domain experts in
the field. Do you want to do
entrepreneurship,
>> right?
build an entre I mean you want to build
an investing high school and you know
all of that stuff that you know I I
believe you know if you look you know
our New York campus I bet will have more
financially oriented workshops in the
afternoon than our silic than our San
Francisco one which is going to have
more tech oriented right and and so so
anyway told the whole thing I believe we
need to bring entrepreneurs in we need
to bring capitalism in here and we need
to create all the different parts of
school choice so that parents can pick
what they love. Yeah. And there is this
enabling technology, you know, when you
talk about do you have something that's
10 times better that can transform an
industry,
>> kids learning 10 times faster
>> is and so that they can do it, you know,
in two hours a day is that breakthrough
product that can do it. And then and
then back to your point, what's the
skepticism? It's like, okay, well, you
have to we have to prove this. The
product's not done. So, right, we got to
we got to get it done. we got to scale
and whether it's us or anybody else
these this you know the tech behind this
is you know totally doable
>> um then the second is for parents is
okay now that I can think about it what
do I want my kids to do in the afternoon
that you know and I think the broader
question on all this stuff is and it was
you know and I I believe it's societal
level right it's when I was talking to
the education ministers I was like once
there's this tablet and it's 2 hours a
day
What is your education system going to
be? Cuz it's coming.
>> How do we want our kids to spend their
day,
>> right? And what what does society want
to say? This is where kids should spend
their day because there's no point in
having them in a classroom for 6 hours a
day. That's like that's gone, right? And
so, and now you're like, and back to my
three things that I want every parently,
I'm like, we need to make it where kids
love school, right? Because they only
need two hours. can love school and then
they can be in an environment of high
standards and high support right and do
awesome things and learn life skills
right that's you know that's the vision
that I want and it is hard to execute
and you know all of those things but
that's the you know
>> that's the next 20 years
>> no that's that's my next 20 years is uh
to do it and I guess one last to the
anybody in the audience who's like maybe
I want to do this
>> I can tell you in the last three years
like just career-wise obviously I you
know I had a great career we'll talk
about in a minute,
>> you know, made plenty of money and all
that stuff, but there's nothing that's
more fun and exciting and rewarding than
working on education. Like it's the last
three years in the whole scheme of
things is 10 times better. I mean, it's
awesome. And so, you know, in recruiting
entrepreneurs to the vision and mission
and excitement, like totally come aboard
like we need to go build great
businesses, but there's nothing that's
more fun and rewarding. And back to the
bigger picture, there's nothing more
important for society.
>> Can you tell us a little bit about
Prodigy and the idea of using games to
deliver this?
>> Prodigy, there's a game out there.
People have talked about gamified
learning forever. We very strongly
believe in this. I'm investing a lot of
money in this space because when you
talk about scale, we have our physical
buildings, right? And I got guides and I
got an expensive footprint, right?
Expensive cost to serve to to drive
motivation. This engine, right, if I get
kids to go through it, right, is going
to provide the learning.
>> And so, how do I get engagement? And the
people who know how to engage kids more
than anything is video game developers.
They know how to engage kids. Tik Tok
and video games, right? Back to the
things. And that is absolutely a
scalable way. When I talk about this
tablet, I absolutely believe that there
will be video games on that tablet that
are totally engaging to kids
>> that they will go through and it will
teach them everything they need to know.
So, you'll see when Timeback launches,
right, there'll be a section where
there's we have we have a team of people
who's like using AI
um where they're using AI to build video
games on top of the time back engine
that kids will sit and play. The easiest
way to think about this is well, let's
take fluence. Let's take a one that like
schools have stopped teaching
multiplication and division tables, you
know, and vocabulary lists. Memorization
has sort of gone out of style.
>> Um uh which is really really bad. Like
it it's really important that kids learn
this. Um uh but people don't like the
grind, right? The engagement is the hard
part. I just saw this last week where
basically think of a game like Candy
Crush.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. But it's teaching math fluency,
math fact fluency, and it's super fun
and engaging and it's it's a super high
quality game.
>> Um kids are basically just going to play
this game and learn all their fast math
facts,
>> right? And that fluency will do more to
move up right math capability than
anything you can imagine. It's obviously
highly scalable and you can get that out
there, you know, um broad distribution.
Now, if you take that example though and
then just go large, you can imagine a
great AAA team, right, of the best video
game designers. And so, um, we've we've
invested over hund00 million in getting
some of the best video game designers in
the world. They're down in Austin,
>> and they are building a video game on
top of the 2-hour learning engine that
they believe will rival any video game
on the planet.
>> And the difference was parents will be
happy to let their kids play it and get
their kids to top 10%.
>> Yeah. And I absolutely believe that is
back to motivational models.
>> Yeah.
>> Absolutely. Like you know and and and
that when we talk about the software
side we talk right now it's all the
physical building side you know back to
the scale the time back team is like
okay I got to get the engine working.
2026 is how do I take parts of the
motivational model that's only been done
physically you know in person and get it
into the software. And so all of a
sudden you're like okay if the kids just
voluntarily play a video game and
they're going through it right you can
imagine. And so, and let me give you an
example is I I watched, you know, like a
test case where, you know, you're asking
a kid and you're like, um, and I'm not a
video game person, so maybe I'm gonna
get the wording wrong. If I had a
training center that would give you
extra health, you know, so it would
increase your chances.
>> Um, how long would you be willing to go
to the training center? And the training
center is just going to be math problems
or some academic thing. And these kids
are like, it's going to give me extra
health, so like I can increase the win.
And the more I do in the training
center, the more health I get. And
they're like, "Yeah." And the kids's
like, "I do 10 hours in that training
session." And I I don't I'm not I don't
I'm like, "How long is these video
games?" And they're like, "Oh, you know,
10 or 20 minutes." And like this kid
literally just was like, "I would do 10
hours of academics." Now remember, it's
only 20 to 30 hours to do an entire
grade level.
>> Yeah. There's all these kind of
motivational stuff or and so there's a
whole video game one that back to I
absolutely believe the next set of big
video games are going to be built on a
academic engine that's going to teach
kids. The old ones aren't based on
learning science and mastery standard
and you know uh the kids don't when
they're not engaging enough
>> so the kid won't grind through it. Yeah.
>> Right. And you have to have that
standard. You have to have both. You
have to have a learning engine plus the
world's best video game. Yeah,
>> there's going to be a ton of video game
developers. Back to getting
entrepreneurs.
>> It's too competitive. Yeah, the old
video games are it's too competitive.
Come do educational ones cuz let me tell
you, back to financially, parents are
willing to pay way more money. The arpoo
on a video game that's getting a kid to
top 10% academics.
>> Are you kidding me?
>> There's 10 million moms in America who
would pay a hundred bucks a month for
their kid to love academics and right
drive it up.
>> Yeah.
>> Back to product market fit and deciding.
So, one of the schools that was opened
was a video game school back to this
where you do your two-hour learning.
It's a middle school only for to catch
kids up, right? So, they're ready for
high school and then you do um uh video
games in the afternoon. And back to
product marketing, there's, you know,
you you talk to it and they're like,
"Wow, it really works, but I there's
parents are like, I'm not sending my kid
to video game school." Right? That's a
hard hard push. But if you just pivoted
a little bit and say, "Well, what if
your kid came to you and said, "Mom,
dad, I want after school tutoring,
>> parents are like, I'd love after school
tutoring." Right? And so you can
actually create and there's one that's
going to be created um which is tutoring
and tournaments.
>> So after school, you're going to have
tournament games, right? Video game
tournaments. So you do your one hour in
the app and then you get an hour of
tournament gaming time. And we're
actually working with some of the big
streamers and video game players who are
going to host these big events. And you
sort of compare the problem today where
parents have to go push their kid for
kuman and you know just you know do all
that and the kids hate it and it's all
this you know point of confrontation
versus kids coming and back to kids must
love school. You could totally build an
environment where they love it and
they're like, "Yes, I'm going to go
crank the app especially because it's
going to give me extra health in the
video game that I'm going to go play.
I'm going to play in this huge stream
with all these other kids." Right? You
can build those solutions. It
>> It's so exciting for me. Uh we've talked
before about this, but this conversation
really made it click for me how much
time back is sort of like an enabling
platform technology that if you get that
three-part engine right in the software
which you're working on and is a
tractable problem. It like a thousand
flowers can bloom on top of it and and
that makes me wonder like we spent all
this time talking about Alvool. I would
love to just hear a little bit about you
and your background. Um there's not a
lot about you in the world. Like most of
the press that exists about you is from
the '90s. you know, at one point you
were the youngest self-made Forbes 4100
member or whatever and then you sort of
went into the into the wilderness. I
don't know, you disappeared. So, tell
tell us like your life story. I would
just love to hear your personal
background and then we'll dip into a
couple topic areas.
>> I I grew up uh
you know in a businessoriented
environment. Um my dad worked for GE.
You know, I I was learning what gross
margin was and you know when I'm 12
years old and and and things like that.
Uh, back to my schooling. I wasn't I
didn't like school. I'd get in trouble.
I almost, you know, kicked out of
suspended and kicked out of high school.
Didn't graduate college cuz I'm like,
what am I I I can't sit. I just I can't
sit to these classes. Now, one of the
things that's really important is
academics is one piece of a very, you
know, complex bundle. And like Stanford
is an awesome school even if you don't
like the lectures. Yeah.
>> Right. because everything else around it
like when I when I was at Stanford it's
like oh Steve Jobs is talking one you
know one of my best friends Julie
Zalinsky she's like oh I'm going to go
work at next with Steve Jobs and learn
all this stuff and you know Bill Gates
comes down or Scott McNeely and you sit
and you learn you know uh from all
whether it's your classmates or just the
environment in general um uh all this
awesomeness and so it's important in
education to understand it's a complex
bundle not just you know who does the
best academically uh even at a school at
Stanford. My daughter's there and now as
a freshman and she's like, I am going to
start skipping class. She's never she
hasn't had a teacher in 10 years,
>> right? She hasn't had a teacher in 10
years and she always and she is like the
one who loves academics and she always
was like look down on me like you would
skip classes, dad, you know, cuz she's
very much that rule follower. And then
now that she's there, she's like, "Oh,
wow. Like, you know, Math Academy is a
way better math app than my math lecture
and I'll just use that." But she loves
Stanford and their, you know, everything
else around it. So, School's a bundle.
Um, you know, and I dropped out and I
started Trilogy. And, you know, in the
'9s it was we were, you know,
>> Trilogy started in '89.
>> So, we we started officially in '89. I
would have been class of 90. Um, if I
gra if I had stayed and graduated, it it
was, you know, we were the rocket ship
in the '90s.
>> What was Trilogy at its inception?
>> The core product we built, it's an AI
product, right? an expert system. One of
the core products of an expert system
back then was um a configurator, which
is putting together, right? Or if you go
to a Dell website or a car website and
you do a configuration. Now imagine it
for a phone switch or a Boeing airplane,
right? Or medical equipment, right? uh
things that are super mainframes, things
that are super complicated where you
have millions and millions of combin uh
combinotaurics
>> and if you sell it wrong,
>> you only find it out on the
manufacturing floor
>> and then it cost you millions of dollars
to fix. And so basically what our system
would do was just it was called sales
builder. It would basically take all the
knowledge, right, that was in
engineering and manufacturing and put it
on a lap. Laptops were new back then in
1990. And it would put it on a laptop so
you could sell things that would work
and be eligible and would save companies
millions of dollars a day.
>> And so they'd give us millions and
millions of dollars for all that stuff.
And so that was our that was our first
product. Um, we then built around we had
sales stuff so we built other things,
you know, around that suite. And then uh
after 2000 we started buying companies
not just builds. So the '9s were all
organic builds.
>> Um and then you know 2000 was let's
acquire software
>> and that's chapter
>> ESW and that's continued right through
it and it's you know it's 100 it's a
private company down in Austin uh
generates lots of cash flow. It's why
you can take a billion dollars and say
I'm going to go spend it on education.
Three years ago, I went to my team who'd
been with me for 25 years.
>> Yeah.
>> And I was like,
you've been telling me for 25 years that
you could run this company better than
me.
>> Let's see. Right. Good luck. I'm going
to go be a principal. Right. And I said,
"And by the way, I'm taking a billion
dollars so I can, you know, figure out
and and get that going."
>> And so now I turned from, you know, boss
to shareholder. And literally I'm like
the worst shareholder now in the world.
I feel like if I was I like I feel so
sorry for her because I'm like guys I I
need all this capital. Like I need more
cash. No, I'm we're you know this
expansion that Mackenzie wants to do,
right? It's going to take $300 million.
So she has to raise money or we're going
to have to give it to her. So like
generate more cash flow guys
>> and you know all these software
companies you got. You got to figure out
how to be more capital light, right?
which to their credit and I I will give
them a call out like uh I think on Bill
Gurley's um Bill Gurley by the way lives
right next to our high school um he said
on his last one I'd really love to see a
private equity firm
>> that is taking advantage of the thousand
dead unicorns
>> right and that very much is what that is
is what trilogy and ESW the team is
doing is you know there's all these SAS
companies right who um you know added
loaded on a ton of debt right in a
growth play and they're gone and so
basically their equities is zero
>> and they're being handed back to the
private credit guys and the private
credit guys are like what do you want me
to do with this right
>> and so our back to when I put the
pressure on them of you know I'm going
to I'm going to suck a ton of capital
out of you guys and cash flow out of you
guys they're like how do we become
capital light so they're actually and
they've signed a few of these deals
already and we'll see if it really takes
off but they're going to all the private
credit guys and
>> say we'll handle this offer
>> we'll Hey, we'll take this whole
company, give us this company for a
dollar.
>> Yeah.
>> And we'll split the cash flows.
>> ESW and Trilogy is known as being like
the best operators in the space, right?
They can generate more cash than anybody
else. Um, and so, you know, some of the
big names are like they've they've uh
sold them sold them a few companies, you
know, basically for a dollar.
>> Um, and they're going to split the cash
flows and see how they go. But the point
is there's 20 billion dollars of those
companies sort of out there on the books
and I'm super I Good luck guys freaking
go do you know crush that for me cuz
I'll take the cash
>> if you think about the lessons from
especially from ESW I'll talk about
trilogy too I'm always interested in
software how incredibly hard it is to
build software that anyone cares about
pays for and uses and then how
surprisingly efficiently they can be run
once you've achieved product market fit.
So if you take like the Elon example
that every time I talk to a software CEO
in private they'd be like can you
believe this guy cut you know 70 or 80%
of the jobs and things seem totally fine
that there is just a massive efficiency
gain in software systems that are at
maturity or past product market fit and
that ESW fundamentally was about um how
do I take something that's working but
wildly inefficiently run and make it
massively more efficient and therefore
more cash flow generative. Is that like
a fair summary?
>> Yeah, growth is expensive.
>> Yeah. is I I a way to do it is if you're
trying to be a hyperrowth
>> company
>> your cost structure right and your
culture it's it's just very expensive
>> and when you say okay
>> I don't need that kind of growth right
that's why everything becomes that much
cheaper there I guess there's two
dimension because the Elon example
brings it first just though just growth
right and so like back to these deals
right you're the private credit guy the
management team of that failed unicorn
have been spending hundreds of millions
of dollars to, you know, be worth
billions and billions. And that's their
culture and attitude. And if you go in
and be like, "Dude, like you're wasting
some money here."
>> Yeah.
>> They're like, "What are you talking
about?" Right? We have built a culture
around all of this. And if I if I change
it, I'll lose all the employees. And so
when you go in, you have to be able to
say,
>> "We don't care for those.
>> We don't care if they go like to Elon
Musk. Elon's firing them." But you
fundamentally have to be like my team
can run this company.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. And that's back to to Trilogy ESW
is just their capability is they're like
yeah we can run this.
>> Right. And so you know that old team
that wants growth they should go on
right it's companies have life cycles
and you're like you guys are the growth
team. You should go get your next
growth. There's an AI startup that you
could go raise a ton of money for and go
play do your growth playbook. But this
particular company that wherever it is,
right, it's not a growth play anymore
and so you should run it. Not like a
growth play, right? And um and so yes,
Trilogy and ESW is very good at that and
you can generate tons of cash flow on
it.
>> If you had to name like the three things
that are most responsible for, okay, you
get a new business at ESW either for a
dollar for more than a dollar. Dollar
sounds like a good deal
>> and then you know a year later, however
long it takes, it's now way more
profitable than it was before. what are
typically like the you know one two or
three things that you're doing to make
that possible. The number one is, you
know, growth versus installed base, you
know, is the way to think about it. In a
growth company, you care about the new
customers and that's all you care about.
And in an installed base company, you
care about your existing customers. And
so, literally, like, so our team when
they buy a company, the first thing they
do is they call all the customers, every
single one.
And you'll be shocked at these
multi-million dollar customers who like,
"Wow,
>> it's the first time I've gotten a phone
call from this company because
management on a growth company. It's not
it's all on the prospects." And you're
like, "Hey, you know, customer success,
right?" You know, the mantra trilogy in
ESW is customer success. Hey, what do we
have to do to make you successful? and
you know why don't we set up you know
quarterly calls where you tell us if
we're making you successful and what are
the joint metrics and they're like wow
this is the first time anybody said that
right and when you do that right all of
a sudden you get retention
>> right and so retention of the installed
base and that's actually how you grow
the installed base is
>> you know they're going to sit there and
tell you what they want and how to do it
and sometimes you can do it you know
sometimes there's upsell opportunities
and all of that as well where you're
like great I'm solving the customer's
problem and that is actually leading to
more.
>> But you have to sit there and you have
to look at your installed base and be
like, "This is it."
>> Like,
>> you don't get more.
>> I I don't get more. And so, I really
need to treat these guys really well and
I really need to understand what they
want and I need to figure out, hey, if I
do add AI to this product, you know, is
is there upsell there, right? Is there
something that's really valuable or oh
my god the prior guys have ignored you
and it's a total nightmare and you're
trying to cancel and it's hard to get
off enterprise software and so you're
two years into your three-year you know
transition plan you know can I reverse
that right can I provide something where
oh all of a sudden I care about you
you're going to stop the migration off
and you know get back on and so that's
that's 100% of what the the playbook is
is just saying you know
>> and is the idea is the objective
function um like actual cash flows that
could be pulled out of the business
versus enterprise value. Like is that
the is that the same as the switch from
growth to install base is like look this
thing is a the melting ice cube would
always be the term of art in in this
space. So it's like keep it cold for
longer basically and and take the cash
flows and if the terminal value is zero
like fine I don't care.
>> Correct. You're looking at what is your
DCF you're pulling the cash out and if
it goes to zero
>> right there built you know there's built
to last.
>> Yeah. There's for there's a cycle in a
company where it's built to die.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. Right. And you're just like this
this product is done.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. And what you're just doing is
managing
>> and you're just and you're pulling the
cash out to do it and there is
investment you make because that extends
it. Software still is one where if you
focus on the customer I mean just basics
right that you can extend your right the
area under the curve. Um, absolutely.
And then you get some nice things like,
oh, an AI uplift and, you know, things
like that that that allow you to do it.
>> What was the transition like for you
going from this like extremely young,
extremely successful person that's on
the cover of magazines and stuff like
this in the '90s to choosing a much more
private, quieter existence.
>> So that was all that was done basically
because I got married. So like in the
'9s, right, crazy trilogy, super
awesome, right? We're on all the covers.
We're grow, you know, 100% growth. It's
it's totally awesome. And then you know
uh it's actually my last podcast uh was
20 years ago. Um uh and coincidentally
20 years ago I got married um and so I
just decided I wanted a different path
um you know for the family and the kids
and and what it was that was a a
different stage. And now and the why I'm
here is, you know, my
>> is well my my my youngest is now going
to be she's a senior,
>> right? And so she's like, "Okay, you
know, uh back to trying to give your
kids as normal a world as you can." Um
>> I just felt that being, you know, under
the radar um and more private was
better. Now as I look forward to my
future I'm like I got 20 years and you
know I need to be out there because we
have to educate parents like you know
the phase that I'm in very much is you
know we talk we have we we talk about
two things we talk about how you know
our schools we educate kids you know and
time back we educate kids our marketing
department slogan is we educate parents
>> right because parents view of education
it's 200 years of all this old stuff
right and they they just think things
that aren't true, right? It just it's
not true anymore. And so, you know,
educating parents about, you know, what
is possible. And so, that's
>> sort of my new role is I have to go out
and do that.
>> What lessons did you learn from Trilogy
University? I think it's so interesting
that that used to exist back in the
Trilogy days and now here we are again.
What tell us what that was and what you
learned from.
>> Sure. So we started, you know, in
Silicon Valley, you know, dropped out of
Stanford, you know, literally living in
the garage, you know, uh we couldn't
raise venture capital. It was different
back then. We couldn't raise venture
capital. We thought our ideas were
terrible. One of our co-founders was
like, if I'm going to be poor and have
no money in Liberty Garage, I'm going to
do it in Austin, Texas, cuz it's way
cheaper than Palo Alto.
>> And so he moved to Austin. And so we all
followed him. He was our best engineer,
developer guy, uh the visionary behind
the the engine itself. The problem with
Austin, Texas in 1992 when we moved
there is there were very few software
engineers, right? And so what we had to
do was build basically the software um
group down there. And so what we did is
we basically went to the all the best
schools in the country and we hired
2,000 Ivy League grads, you know,
Stanford, MIT, you know, uh Princeton,
wherever, uh and brought them to Austin.
Um, and so that was our big thing and
and back to the culture was we brought
them in and you know it's an interesting
thing about high standards, right? So
these are the best kids in the country,
right? Coming from the best schools and
we're like if you come down to Austin
we're going to put you in Trilogy
University and this will be the hardest
100 days you've ever done. You are going
to work a 100 hour weeks, right? it's
gonna be 8 am to midnight and we are
gonna build the most awesome products
>> and it's gonna be the hardest thing you
did but it's gonna be great
>> right and that was why we were able to
recruit everybody
>> was because of the high standards
>> right and it was actually interesting
you know Microsoft at the time you know
our our claim to fame was you know we
got all the best students um at the time
I think Microsoft you know sort of the
peak of their power 9798 90% of students
would go to Microsoft versus any
competing company and against Trilogy it
was like uh Microsoft only got 30% and
we won 70
>> right and you know and part of it the
the reason was is because we made it
harder
>> right where kids want to do awesome
stuff right and graduates want to do
awesome stuff and you don't want to give
them a cush job or all this stuff you
want to put them on the hardest problems
where they can work like crazy and do it
and so that was children university
which that ethos, right, is um you know
uh we continue it today. There's a
>> there's a program uh that's in Austin
that's running right now uh called
Gauntlet AI because they're trying to
figure out about AI and training where
they're bringing down a 100 people into
Austin. So they basically scour the
world
>> basically looking for the top 1 or 2%
kids, right? And these are 20somes and
they're bringing them down to Austin and
they're doing a hundred days of 100hour
weeks to learn AI
>> to build apps with AI and retool your
whole career to be like, okay, what's
what what am I going to be in the
future? Um, and they have it set up
where it's actually free for people to
go through this. And then if you make it
through and there's like a 50 plus
percent wash out rate, but they then um
get a $200,000 job because there are all
these companies just lining up for being
like, "Oh my god, these people just
worked 100 hours a week. They're leading
edge AI. Oh, I can't wait to hire them."
And so it's a it's a unique thing where
when when it was started, people are
like, "No one's going to go sign up to
do that." Yeah.
>> But if you actually talk to the gauntlet
grads, they're like, "This transformed
my life. This is the best, you know, 10
weeks, 100 hour weeks I've ever done.
>> If I was to watch you like a day in the
life from, you know, your podcast 20
years ago to your one, you know, now
through today with the focus on Trilogy
and ESW, what was your life like? Like
what were you were you just like a
normal CEO running a you know software
holding company basically like and and
and what was the it like you strike me
as a person that's just relentlessly
like pushing to make things better.
Where would I find you most pushing in
those days? What would be the parts that
that matter back then is, you know,
you're you're trying to figure out it's
always back to capital is you're trying
to figure out is how much the the
trade-off between how much do I have to
pay for this company?
>> Mhm.
>> Right. And the more I pay, right, the
better caliber asset I get.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. Versus, okay, what's the cash
flow I can generate out of it? And then
what are the things that generate the
cash flow? And so first you're like okay
what are the innovations we can make
about customer interaction and
delivering customer success and you know
how do we innovate there. The second
part is okay, how do we take this
codebase and old codebase and how do we
make the product better,
>> right? And how do we make sure that
we're being able to take these and
revitalize them,
>> right? And and how do we do that? How do
I go get people who care about this?
>> Um, and and how do I find them? And so
it's just it's just looking at, you
know, what are the parts of the company
that drive your returns, right? And
fundamentally, back to systems, you're
like, you have to have these scalable
systems. We've bought over a hundred
companies. So anything we're doing
right, you have to be able to say,
"Okay, can I apply this to a hundred
companies?"
>> If you had a fresh billion dollars with
a new young version of yourself in a
new, you know, LLC rapper or something
or corp rapper and you wanted to invest
it in software, how much worse do you
think the returns you would earn in the
next 20 years would be from that
applying a similar playbook to what
you've applied versus the last 20 years?
Like how much worse is the future?
>> Well, it's two it's two parts. When we
talk about SAS versus AIdriven,
>> the SAS stuff is going to be way worse.
Just pure transactional SAS, I believe,
is just going to be dramatically worse
than the the the big, you know, uh the
big winners. Um
the AI
native ones. So if you take and it
depends on whether you call AI part of
SAS, AI native
>> companies. Yeah. And call them software
companies or or whatever. AI native
companies are going to be worth more
than any SAS company ever has been. And
so
>> because they can just do so much more
for the customer.
>> Yeah. It's just your your breath of what
you get to do. You could change
fundamentally how the business works,
>> right? It's well take education, right?
You literally are like, okay, kids could
learn 10 times faster. It's a multi-
trillion dollar industry globally. And
there no other software that's out
there, no edte, nothing that's ever been
built can have kids learn 10 times
faster. and you're like, "Okay, I have
to build a really good product and now
kids could learn 10 times faster." The
value that it will drive to the economy
is just going to be huge.
>> Can you tell me what you've learned from
Jim Ael?
>> Uh he was my head of HR.
>> Um and uh he came from old school. Um he
was from Bristol Myers. I think I hired
him. Uh and this is in the early 2000s.
And uh Jim Abel was one of the most
influential guys uh you know in my
career for me. He was awesome. Um he
still is awesome. Uh you know on advice
and uh it's it's it's ironic you know if
I had to say what was the best business
advice I got it came from Jim. Um and
the reason was because Jim, first of
all, software businesses are HR,
>> right? They are HR businesses and it's
your biggest cost structure. It's your
biggest leverage of getting return. It's
it's it's all that matters, right? And
he was an awesome HR guy and you know, I
was a terrible HR person. Um still am.
uh you know, and he would just sit there
and be like, "Let me explain how you can
get, you know, why you're like the
world's worst boss or manager or however
whatever category you wanted." He did
more to help educate me, you know, and
and and and grow me uh than anybody. Um
and I I mean I we could sit and I could
give you 20 stories.
>> Give me one or two.
>> Give you one. Okay. Here's the first one
I remember. Um, so he comes in and you
know we're doing our annual meeting and
I used to write a strategy doc and it'd
be like 20 pages like here's our you
know children's strategy here we go and
we get it in you know there's you know
1500 people in a big room and I'm going
to get up and we're going to talk this
strategy
and Jim was like what are you doing this
is the dumbest thing ever you here's
here's what got Joe you have you're
allowed three lines
three words
and you need to distill your strategy
down to that
>> because 20page strategy documents, those
are useless.
And I remember sitting there and I was I
was talking to somebody I and I was just
like, God, does does Jim understand we
hire all these guys from the Ivy League?
Like everybody can read a 20page
strategy document and this, you know,
slogans, right? I'm like I'd be
embarrassed to get up and sloganer my
way through with you know this super
super high-end
>> and he's like Joe smart person disease
you have smart person disease you need
to craft your message and make it simple
and clear.
>> Yeah. And I was like, "Whatever." And I
ignored him. And then he went and he
interviewed every single person in the
company, right? And it took him
basically months. And he came back and
he pulled me into his office and showed
me on the whiteboard. And he's like,
"This is what actually people think your
strategy is."
>> Cuz I just asked them all.
>> Yeah.
>> And I'm like, "Wow, that's like
literally the opposite of our strategy."
Because he's like, "Right." And he's
like, "Yes." Because in a 20 trade
strategy document, there's always one
line that someone can attach to and say,
"See, I'm aligned."
>> Yeah.
>> Cuz you said something. And he's like,
"You need to go create your strategy
where there's no escape.
>> Where your message is so simple that
everybody can sit there and they have to
read it and if they feel discomfort
because they're not aligned, that's what
you're looking for,
>> right? And that lesson
>> can feel it in the alpha school
presentation. out. Kids must love
school,
>> right? Kids, the three commitments.
>> Yeah,
>> kids must love school. And he's always
about the edge. He's like, "And how are
you going to measure that, Joe?" And
he's like,
>> "Kids instead of vacation." And he's
like, Jim Abel would definitely pass
that as like that. There's no escape
from that,
>> right? If you're a guide, right? If you
are going to be hired to be in charge,
you sit there as a teacher and you're
like, I need to make the kid love
school. he has to crush the academics
and do the life skills. Like there's no
escape from that. And if you don't think
that's possible, you won't take the job.
>> Last week, a friend and I went, we're
looking for new companies to be
interested in investing in. And we went
through 500 company websites blind. We
didn't look at who their investors were.
It's just companies that had gotten some
funding.
>> And went through 500 websites, and we
didn't find a single one where it was
like totally clear and obvious what the
damn product did for the customer. I
think if everyone in the world did the
threeline, three words each, the world
would be a far better place.
>> It absolutely would. And it's it's and
you know, he's doing it from corporate
strategy, but then once you do it,
you're like, okay, we'll just
communicate everywhere. No, it's just
true. It's true everywhere. And you
know, and that that is just if you
communicate that out that you know, good
marketing, right? And he always talk
he's an HR guy, his marketing insights,
he came through like Pepsi and you know
stuff. He was like a great consumer. He
is a great consumer marketer as well
where he'd just sit there and be like it
needs to be a magnet.
>> Good marketing needs to attract
and repel
>> that you need to go find who is your
target audience. And if you're giving
platitudes,
right, then that's not repelling
anybody, that's terrible marketing. And
he's like, that's terrible vision for a
company. He's like, you know, he'd look
at most, you know, what are the five
things? And you know, he's like, if
someone won't say the opposite,
>> it shouldn't be on the list
>> because then it's a platitude. So he's
like, you know, like a controversial one
when we were back then was
>> integrity,
>> right? Cuz everybody has integrity on
it. Because of course you want that.
He's like, it's a waste word. He's like,
cuz no one's going to put on their
corpor core values. I want a company
with no integrity. Right? Nobody says
that, right? And so you Yes, you have to
have it.
>> I love that. the opposite
>> if it's not the opposite and you have to
have it's a magnet attract and repel and
if you won't say the if there's not
somebody else who will say the opposite
then it's it's wasted right you're not
getting the the clear message across
>> is there anyone in addition to Jim that
taught you something as valuable that
you remember from your business career
>> Jack Welch was a mentor of mine um which
was my dad worked for him and then my
dad passed when I was 25 um and Jack
called me and was just like I'm here you
know anytime of coaching or help I can
give.
>> Um, and so I would fly up during this is
during the 90s.
>> Um, I'd fly up and uh spend the day uh
with him at GE or or wherever. And you
know, he would he was awesome. I mean uh
you know his ability to motivate you
>> and back to limitless
>> um was just was phenomenal.
>> How did he do it? Like what did you take
from him?
>> I I'll give example. Uh, I was flying
up. This is I'm, you know, youngest
member of the Forbes 400. I'm on the
cover of the magazine, right? I'm
freaking 20ome. I am like, right, life
is awesome. I'm awesome, right? That
whole attitude. And I go up there and
I'm like, yeah, look at this. Right. And
so we talk and like literally at the end
of the the the lunch he's like, "Okay,
so Joe, you're like a you're like a good
product manager. Is that how I should
like think about you? like, you know, a
level seven or whatever G it was, you
know, and I'm and you know, and he he
would just sit there and first of all
just be back to receiving feedback.
>> Yeah.
>> Brutally honest on the feedback of just
let's talk about your strengths and
weaknesses here, Joe. And you sort of
suck at this. Like not just sort of
suck, you're terrible. But then, you
know, taking that to make sure you
understand where you are. Motivate. I
remember I flew back from that trip and
I spent I have so much to do. I have all
these things I need to do. I got to get
better on this dimension and my company
has to get better here and I have to
build better, you know, um product. I
need to learn more. Like he would both
he'd inspire you to just incredible
greatness with the highest standards,
you know, possible
>> um around it. And you know that I'll
give you one more related. I I G G
Medical had bought one of our products
in 1997
and I was up talking to him. He's like,
"Yeah, Med doesn't like your product."
>> And I was like, "I don't know if you
know, it just won e-commerce product of
the year." Like in the year of
e-commerce in 97. It freaking won
e-commerce product. Jack's like, "Joe, I
don't care if it comes from heaven
above. If General Electric doesn't get a
return on its investment, your product
sucks. You suck. your company sucks like
no and you know and you're just like you
go from oh my god I won product of the
year to he's making a really good point
about return and you know he's like you
want to sell the big companies you have
to you know and literally that helped us
you know create our customer success and
how we could you know show return that
we wouldn't just be a product company
but we could show value to the customers
and so uh you know that was what he
definitely did uh
>> I love that um I'm curious about your
motivation. Like we talk so much about
other people's motivation.
>> What is the throughine of all your hard
work? One of the things that comes up a
lot when you ask people that know you I
think decently well. They'll say some
version of this which is like Joe's like
>> n10 like just a really nice high energy
normal guy and then he's onetenth like
business killer psycho.
>> And I'm I'm curious about that 10% of
you and like maybe for you to describe
it if that resonates with you or not and
if so where it comes from. I'm just a
normal guy with with this extreme. You
should ask my daughters. They probably
have a a good view on that. But um uh
there there's a there is an element of
um pushing the limit, right? Is where
you get all the alpha, right? That's
where you get all the the benefit. Um
that it's at that extreme um where the
real truths come out, right? And so I'm
I absolutely believe I'm always trying
to figure out how do you take this and's
limit turn it to 11.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. You're like let's work 100 hours
a week. Let's get you know how we're
gonna get all these kids
>> right at you know in the '9s.
>> We're going to build the craziest you
know boot camp children's university.
Back to what's hard about educational
change. Parents want it the same way.
You know my first day I literally sat in
front of the parents. It was actually
first day of school which was 2 weeks
after I started and I was like you know
we we're not going to have any adult do
academic teaching in this school. You
know there's like hundreds of parents
who are just like this dude's a whack
job right and what what and all this
stuff. And I appreciate all of those who
stayed to us. Some did rage quit
obviously and totally understandably
that to me I'm like yeah well this is
how we're going to make it work and it's
going to be fine and of course there's
not going to be
>> teachers doing academic teaching because
this can do it better and so that's
where you get the okay that seems like
that 10% of just of pushing to it you
know and and today you know our two-hour
learning engine you know and 2x in two
hours right that thing is just going to
right
>> you're just going to go
>> well there's no reason why not to
because the kids you know 100 facts and
ideas an hour in their head with the Tik
Tok interface. It's just whatever this
is, well, let's just let's just do more.
>> Um, and you know, I generally think, you
know, and on the scale when you say I'm
the 10%, you know, it's Elon Musk is
always a thing. Like, but you you know,
you you go to dinner with him, right?
And he's like, you know, 100x like I'm
like, "Oh, I I really suck. Like, I'm
terrible, right?" He's like, "I don't
understand why you don't have a thousand
schools already. I don't I don't know
what's going on." I'm like, well, what's
all these issues, you know, you know,
and so the the it's all it's all a
continuum, right, on on where you sit.
Uh, but yes, it's, you know, that's that
part of it is, you know, designing the
system like in designing the ecosystem,
you know, well, whether it's a product
or whatever, you're like, what are those
things? What are the levers that if you
really push them, that's what, you know,
keeps going. So, so learning sort of
happens at the limit would be like the
cap.
>> Learning learning happens at the limit
and it's it's learning and how do you
there's always the ideas, right? And
then actually how do you implement it
and scale it, right? It's the it's the
Steve Jobs thing of like it's really
easy to visionary a good product and
there's 10,000 decisions you have to
make to make them all work together,
right? that there's 10,000 decisions
we've made in the alpha system and the
two-hour learning system in this
ecosystem. There's 10,000 decisions that
you need to make and they reinforce each
others,
>> right? That if you, you know, it's a DNA
strand and if you like, you know, one of
the things people often say about me is
they're like, I want 85% Joe,
>> right? I want what Joe's doing, but I'm
going to do the 85% version of it. And
the answer is and they find out it
doesn't work
>> right
>> 85 if if it if 85% worked I'd do that
but it doesn't I'm pushing it to where
it needs to be for it to work and if all
of a sudden you back off those it's
going to fail for some reason. Right? If
you don't believe your school needs to
have kids love school they'll go instead
of vacation.
>> You're not it's not gonna work.
>> Right? It's and people are like that
standard is so ridiculous. And you're
like,
>> "Yes,
>> that's the one that makes it work."
>> Right. That is the one that makes it
work.
>> It's the uh spinal tap approach to
product building. When was the first
time you experienced that? Like like
this this spinal tap approach turn it to
11.
>> I'm so curious about its roots in you
like was were you like that as a kid?
Like did you find yourself What was the
first time you remember pushing
something to 11 to see what you could
learn at the limit
>> in high school? This is a dysfunctional
11 I guess which was I was always about
what's the minimum academic score I can
get but still hit
>> my goals.
>> So like I would sit there and be like
well if I get an 89.5 that'll round to
90 which gives me an A which is the same
as getting 99 or 100. And I literally
would just do the work to get an 89.5.
And so like right at the limit. Um,
there's a time where I literally turned
in a test where I didn't finish all the
questions because I'm like, "Oh, it's
enough now. I hit my 89.5 and turned it
in." Right? The teacher's just like,
>> "God, I hate you, Joe." Like, really?
You can't just like finish it. So, the,
you know, it just it was the limit side,
you know, that would be the I didn't
like school side and I was trying to
figure out how to game it.
>> How many days could I skip school and
not get expelled when I really turned it
on and was when I started dropped out
and started trilogy. So, you know, the
the the story here is, you know, my
parents were very unhappy that I dropped
out of school. You know, my dad was
definitely more of the rule follower
type and I was too much of the renegade.
And, you know, my mom was very upset. Uh
there's that Forbes article where
they're like, "You're a moron." You
know, it's famous uh title. Uh but, you
know, this was uh little over a year
after I'd started uh Trilogy. I was with
my dad. My dad was like, "I know I
didn't like you. I'm so excited uh that
you started Trilogy because I was so
worried that you were a lazy little
[__] I was so worried about it and it
was just because you were in academics
and you didn't care and so you were
always trying to sherk and do the
minimum." He's like, "You know, I we're
working 100 hours a week. We're sleeping
under the desk. We're just doing
everything right." And he he saw that I
found what I loved, right? And that was
that unlock that you want to say that
feeling of limit that that feeling of
limitless and that I would just write we
would run through walls to do that. Um
you know and for him that was that was
the point. And so that would be the
first time when I really
>> you know demonstrated that at least to
him would have been would have had that.
I I agree that you know acade you know I
I I strongly believe every kid has a
thirst for learning. It's just not
always academic,
>> right? And you're just trying to tap
into that, you know, and for me it
became starting a business and learning
everything about it. And you know, I was
one of the world's expert in
configuration. I can't tell you why, you
know, you know, but it was a means to an
end. I wouldn't have just done, you
know, I I'd sit in the Stanford comp CS
library, you know, read back then you
had to read papers, you know, and and
all that stuff. It was it was finding
that unlock and then once I did it,
you're like it's it brings the energy
and excitement uh to it.
>> What was the switch over from Trilogy to
ESW? What was the first time that that
new unlock happened?
>> Yeah, that's there really wasn't it was
all it was a like to me it's all
trilogy. There was a name issue. There's
like a corporate legal entity, but it's
all it's all the same trilogy. And so
there there really wasn't which was we
bought a couple companies
>> and we're like, "Oh, we really are good
operators."
>> Yeah.
>> Right. We're like, "Oh, we, you know, we
we we actually is really one." Yeah. Oh,
wow. Look at this. And, you know, we
bought a company and we made, I don't
know, 10 times our investment on it.
You're like, "Oh, wow. This is like
>> this is cool."
>> Yeah. This is really cool.
>> It's so interesting the Limitless thing.
Maybe it's a nice place to start to wrap
up. Is that the same person I mentioned
earlier, my friend whose name is Graham
Duncan. He has this idea who had the the
the teenager selling the sweatshirts
that would be so motivated by it, an
amazing kid. um he has this notion of
trying to get people into positive
feedback loops. And it strikes me that
that is what you were doing now with
your time and your money and your
attention. You know, I haven't quoted
numbers, but it's an enormous amount of
your own personal money that you're
putting behind this. And it's pretty
amazing for me as a dad and I'm sure for
everyone listening with kids to think
about your time and your energy and your
money that basically what you're doing
is putting kids into positive feedback
loops where they can feel that feeling
of limitlessness which for anyone that's
felt that knows you don't have to talk
about it. They know that is the biggest
unlock of their lives. And so I'm very
thankful that you're doing what you're
doing. I think it's the one of the
coolest projects happening in America
that people are just starting to learn
about. hopefully now a lot more we'll
learn about. Um I think you know my
traditional closing question. What is
the kindest thing that anyone's ever
done for you? I've had so many right
kindness is um my wife runs a kindness
campaign um uh around all this stuff and
the the kind world of that we live in is
just when you look at the kids um at the
school and you just sit there and say
when I wake up every day the kids who
are in the schools right we are like
forging new ground right this is a
startup school and there's all these
kids who buy in and are like we are part
of it and to a large extent they're
putting their faith in the adults and
that includes obviously me to be like
this seems really crazy
>> right this seems you know very different
but I'm all in and I buy in that's the
part that for me I'm just like you know
it at the end of the day it all comes
back to the kids and their buy in around
this stuff and their willingness to be
part of
um is the thing when I think of
gratitude and kindness that's that's the
core that makes this all happen. Um and
that's where my appreciation goes like
immense amounts to to all of them. And I
you know there's a few of them who are
watching this you know who are going to
be like
it's time to receive feedback Mr. Limont
here is my critical yet constructive
feedback right Alex or Tatum or Ella is
going to you know do that and that's the
part of this whole thing when you think
about to and to your point there's
nothing more important for a society
than to raise kids
>> we have an opportunity because of things
that have been invented and where we are
in the world
>> to totally make it awesome right for the
kids and there is nothing not just more
valuable there is nothing more rewarding
Right. And so to the point of, you know,
if I can assemble the dads and the moms
who wake up every day and are like, I
want this change for the kids, right? We
have the opportunity we need to, you
know, get all together um and make this
available to a billion kids, billion
plus kids, you know, around the world.
Um, and I'm in, right? I'm in for the
next decade, uh, two decades, 20 years.
Uh, I'm putting in the first billion,
right? Transforming this is going to
require more than that. It's a trillion
dollars a year, right? It's it's going
to require more than that. Um, but
there's nothing more important than all
of us to work on it.
>> Joe, this is unbelievably fun for me.
Thank you so much for breaking your
20-year streak with with us here. Can't
wait for everyone to hear. Thanks so
much for your time.
>> Thank you.
[Music]